>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, CHINA RATTLES WORLD
MARKETS BY SHARPLY DEVALUING ITS
MARKETS BY SHARPLY
DEVALUING ITS CURRENCY.
CURRENCY. WHAT ARE THE ECONOMIC
WHAT ARE THE ECONOMIC
REPERCUSSIONS?
REPERCUSSIONS? >>
Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
TUESDAY: AN ALPHABET SHAKE-UP.
GOOGLE SEPARATES ITS CORE SEARCH
BUSINESS FROM ITS MORE RISKY
VENTURES. >> Woodruff:
PLUS, THEY CALL
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THEY CALL
THEMSELVES THE BLACK MAMBS,A
WOMEN WHO HUNT DOWN POACHERS IN
WOMEN WHO HUNT DOWN
POACHERS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
SOUTH AFRICA. >> IT IS
IMPORTANT TO SAVE THE
>> IT IS IMPORTANT
TO SAVE THE RHINOS.
RHINOS. >> THEY ARE
AFRICAN WOMEN IN AN
>> THEY ARE AFRICAN WOMEN IN AN
RICAFAN CONTEXT DOING THIS JOB
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
THE HISTORY OF AFRICA.
HISTORY OF AFRICA. >>
Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET WAS HIT
BY A WAVE OF SELLING TODAY,
A WAVE OF SELLING TODAY,
TRIGGERED BY CHINA'S CURRENCY
TRIGGERED BY CHINA'S
CURRENCY DEVALUATION.
DEVALUATION. THE PRICE
OF OIL AND OTHER
THE PRICE OF OIL AND OTHER
COMMODITIES PLUNGED, AMID FEARS
OF SLOWING GROWTH IN CHINA, AND
MATERIALS STOCKS FOLLOWED SUIT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 212 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
LOST 212 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 17,400.
17,400. THE NASDAQ
FELL 65 POINTS, AND
THE NASDAQ FELL 65 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 20.
THE S&P 500 DROPPED 20. >>
Woodruff: NINE PEOPLE ARE
>> Woodruff: NINE PEOPLE ARE
FACING FEDERAL CHARGES IN A
HACKING SCHEME THAT GAMED WALL
HACKING SCHEME THAT GAMED
WALL STREET FOR $100 MILLION.
STREET FOR $100 MILLION.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS IN NEW
JERSEY AND NEW YORK CITY SAY
HACKERS IN UKRAINE STOLE
CORPORATE NEWS RELEASES BEFORE
CORPORATE NEWS RELEASES
BEFORE THEY BECAME PUBLIC.
THEY BECAME PUBLIC. THEN,
TRADERS IN THE U.S.
THEN, TRADERS IN THE U.S.
ALLEGEDLY USED IT TO ENGAGE IN
ALLEGEDLY USED IT TO
ENGAGE IN INSIDER TRADING.
INSIDER TRADING. FIVE
OF THE SUSPECTS WERE
FIVE OF THE SUSPECTS
WERE ARRESTED TODAY.
ARRESTED TODAY. >>
Ifill: THE HEAD OF THE
>> Ifill: THE HEAD OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
APOLOGIZED TODAY FOR A WASTE
SPILL CAUSED BY AGENCY WORKERS
SPILL CAUSED BY AGENCY
WORKERS IN COLORADO.
IN COLORADO. THREE
MILLION GALLONS OF
THREE MILLION GALLONS OF
YELLOWISH, TOXIC LIQUID RELEASED
FROM A LONG ABANDONED MINE HAS
POLLUTED RIVERS IN COLORADO AND
POLLUTED RIVERS IN
COLORADO AND NEW MEXICO.
NEW MEXICO. THE E.P.A.'s
GINA McCARTHY SAID
THE E.P.A.'s GINA McCARTHY SAID
CREWS ARE WORKING ROUND-THE-
CREWS ARE WORKING
ROUND-THE- CLOCK.
CLOCK. >> THE E.P.A.
HAS TAKEN STEPS TO
>> THE E.P.A. HAS TAKEN STEPS TO
CAPTURE AND TREAT THE DISCHARGE
AT THE MINE ITSELF SO WE ARE
ADDRESSING THE RISK OF ANY
ADDITIONAL DOWNSTREAM INCIDENTS.
AND WE HAVE CONSTRUCTED FOUR
PONDS AT THE SITE WHERE WE ARE
TREATING THE WATER TO LOWER THE
TREATING THE WATER TO LOWER
THE ACIDITY LEVELS AND REMOVE
ACIDITY LEVELS AND
REMOVE DISSOLVED MEDALS.
DISSOLVED MEDALS. >>
Ifill: THE E.P.A. SAYS THE
>> Ifill: THE E.P.A. SAYS THE
TAINTED RIVERS ARE FLOWING TOO
FAST FOR THE ARSENIC AND HEAVY
METALS TO POSE AN IMMEDIATE
METALS TO POSE AN
IMMEDIATE HEALTH THREAT.
HEALTH THREAT. BUT
STRETCHES OF WATERWAY WILL
BUT STRETCHES OF WATERWAY WILL
BE OFF LIMITS FOR DRINKING WATER
AND RECREATIONAL USE UNTIL AT
LEAST THE MIDDLE OF AUGUST.
LEAST THE MIDDLE OF AUGUST. >>
Woodruff: FERGUSON, MISSOURI
>> Woodruff: FERGUSON, MISSOURI
REMAINED UNDER A STATE OF
EMERGENCY FOR A SECOND DAY,
AFTER A NIGHT OF RELATIVELY
PEACEFUL PROTEST.
PEACEFUL PROTEST. CROWDS
CAME OUT AGAIN TO MARK
CROWDS CAME OUT AGAIN TO MARK
ONE YEAR SINCE THE SHOOTING
DEATH OF 18-YEAR-OLD MICHAEL
DEATH OF 18-YEAR-OLD
MICHAEL BROWN.
BROWN. THERE WERE
24 ARRESTS, BUT NO
THERE WERE 24 ARRESTS, BUT NO
SHOOTING OR LOOTING AS THERE HAD
SHOOTING OR LOOTING AS THERE
HAD BEEN THE NIGHT BEFORE.
BEEN THE NIGHT BEFORE.
ON SUNDAY NIGHT, POLICE
CRITICALLY WOUNDED AN 18-YEAR-
OLD AFTER HE ALLEGEDLY FIRED ON
OLD AFTER HE ALLEGEDLY
FIRED ON THEM.
THEM. >> Ifill: IN TURKEY, THE
>> Ifill: IN TURKEY, THE
MILITARY STEPPED UP ITS ASSAULT
MILITARY STEPPED UP ITS
ASSAULT ON KURDISH MILITANTS.
ON KURDISH MILITANTS.
WARPLANES STRUCK SITES OF THE
KURDISTAN WORKERS' PARTY, OR
P.K.K., IN A PROVINCE NEAR
TURKEY'S BORDERS WITH IRAN AND
TURKEY'S BORDERS
WITH IRAN AND IRAQ.
IRAQ. IT WAS THE
LATEST MOVE IN A NEW
IT WAS THE LATEST MOVE IN A NEW
GOVERNMENT CRACKDOWN, AND IT
FOLLOWED ATTACKS ON TURKISH
SECURITY FORCES YESTERDAY, BY
THE P.K.K. AND OTHER GROUPS.
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNMENT OF
GREECE AND INTERNATIONAL LENDERS
REACHED AGREEMENT TODAY ON A NEW
REACHED AGREEMENT TODAY
ON A NEW BAILOUT.
BAILOUT. NEGOTIATORS
WORKED THROUGH THE
NEGOTIATORS WORKED THROUGH THE
NIGHT TO NAIL DOWN THE DEAL,
WORTH MORE THAN $90 BILLION.
A EUROPEAN COMMISSION
SPOKESWOMAN SAID IT STILL NEEDS
SPOKESWOMAN SAID IT STILL
NEEDS APPROVAL FROM GREECE'S
APPROVAL FROM GREECE'S
PARLIAMENT AND EUROZONE
PARLIAMENT AND
EUROZONE COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES. >> WHAT WE
HAVE AT THE MOMENT IS
>> WHAT WE HAVE AT THE MOMENT
IS A TECHNICAL LEVEL AGREEMENT
A TECHNICAL LEVEL AGREEMENT
REACHED BY THE STAFF OF THE
INSTITUTIONS AND THE GREEK
AUTHORITIES ON THE GROUND
FOLLOWING THE WEEKS OF
FOLLOWING THE WEEKS
OF NEGOTIATIONS.
NEGOTIATIONS. WHAT WE
DON'T HAVE AT THE MOMENT
WHAT WE DON'T HAVE AT THE MOMENT
IS A POLITICAL AGREEMENT AND
THAT'S WHAT WE WOULD NEED.
>> Woodruff: GREEK PRIME
MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
IMMEDIATELY CALLED A VOTE IN
PARLIAMENT FOR THURSDAY NIGHT.
HE FACES OPPOSITION WITHIN HIS
OWN PARTY TO SOME OF THE TERMS
OF THE DEAL, SUCH AS SELLING
STATE PROPERTY AND CUTTING
STATE PROPERTY AND
CUTTING PENSIONS.
PENSIONS. >> Ifill:
CHAOS GREW ON THE
>> Ifill: CHAOS GREW ON THE
GREEK ISLAND OF KOS TODAY AS
AUTHORITIES STRUGGLED WITH A
AUTHORITIES STRUGGLED
WITH A WAVE OF MIGRANTS.
WAVE OF MIGRANTS. FIGHTS
BROKE OUT AFTER OFFICIALS
FIGHTS BROKE OUT AFTER OFFICIALS
MOVED ABOUT 1,500 PEOPLE TO A
MOVED ABOUT 1,500 PEOPLE TO
A STADIUM FOR PROCESSING.
STADIUM FOR PROCESSING. SOE
JOMSTLED FOR POSITIONS AND
SOE JOMSTLED FOR POSITIONS
AND POLICE SPRAYED FIRE
POLICE SPRAYED FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO SUBDUE THE
EXTINGUISHERS TO
SUBDUE THE CROWD.
CROWD. AT LEAST
124,000 MIGRANTS HAVE
AT LEAST 124,000 MIGRANTS HAVE
REACHED GREECE THIS YEAR, UP
REACHED GREECE THIS YEAR,
UP 750% FROM A YEAR AGO.
750% FROM A YEAR AGO. >>
Woodruff: AND, THERE'S WORD A
>> Woodruff: AND, THERE'S WORD A
TRUCK DRIVER HAD BEEN AWAKE FOR
28 HOURS BEFORE THE WRECK THAT
SEVERELY INJURED COMEDIAN TRACY
MORGAN AND LEFT ANOTHER PERSON
MORGAN AND LEFT
ANOTHER PERSON DEAD.
DEAD. THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD REPORTED THAT
SAFETY BOARD
REPORTED THAT TODAY.
TODAY. ITS
RECONSTRUCTION FOUND THE
ITS RECONSTRUCTION FOUND THE
TRUCK BLEW PAST WARNING SIGNS
AND SLAMMED INTO A LIMOUSINE-VAN
CARRYING MORGAN ON THE NEW
JERSEY TURNPIKE LAST YEAR.
JERSEY TURNPIKE LAST YEAR. AND,
IT SAID, NO ONE IN THE VAN
AND, IT SAID, NO ONE IN THE
VAN WAS WEARING A SEAT BELT.
WAS WEARING A SEAT BELT. >>
Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
>> Ifill: STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEWSHOUR: WHAT A WEAKER
CHINESE YUAN MEANS
WHAT A WEAKER CHINESE YUAN
MEANS FOR THE GLOBAL ECONOMY.
FOR THE GLOBAL ECONOMY. GOOGLE
ADOPTS A NEW ALPHABET TO
GOOGLE ADOPTS A NEW ALPHABET
TO PROTECT ITS CORE BUSINESS.
PROTECT ITS CORE
BUSINESS. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO CHINA'S
DECISION TO DEVALUE IT'S
CURRENCY, THE YUAN.
CURRENCY, THE YUAN. THIS
EFFORT TO REVIVE ECONOMIC
THIS EFFORT TO REVIVE ECONOMIC
GROWTH IN THE COUNTRY SHOOK UP
GLOBAL MARKETS TODAY AND SPARKED
FEARS AMONG U.S. EXPORTERS.
FEARS AMONG U.S. EXPORTERS. THE
DECISION TO DEVALUE HAD AN
THE DECISION TO DEVALUE HAD
AN INSTANT EFFECT: THE YUAN
INSTANT EFFECT: THE YUAN
CURRENCY FELL NEARLY TWO PERCENT
AGAINST THE U.S. DOLLAR-- THE
AGAINST THE U.S. DOLLAR--
THE MOST IN A DECADE.
MOST IN A DECADE. BEIJING'S
GOAL: TO MAKE CHINA'S
BEIJING'S GOAL: TO MAKE CHINA'S
EXPORTS CHEAPER AND BOOST AN
ECONOMY THAT BEE'SN SLOWING
ECONOMY THAT BEE'SN
SLOWING MARKEDLY.
MARKEDLY. >> (
translated): THE EXPORT
>> (translated): THE
EXPORT SECTOR IS FACING GREAT
PRESSURE.
SECTOR IS FACING GREAT PRESSURE.
INVENTORIES ARE HIGH.
MANUFACTURING, INCLUDING
INVESTMENT, IS FACING OVER-
INVESTMENT, IS FACING
OVER- CAPACITY.
CAPACITY. SO, IN ORDER
TO STOP SLIDING
SO, IN ORDER TO STOP SLIDING
EXPORT FIGURES, WE NEED TO
ADJUST THE CURRENCY RATE.
ADJUST THE CURRENCY RATE. >>
Woodruff: INDEED, CHINA'S
>> Woodruff: INDEED, CHINA'S
EXPORTS WERE DOWN SHARPLY IN
EXPORTS WERE DOWN SHARPLY
IN JULY, BY MORE THAN EIGHT
JULY, BY MORE THAN
EIGHT PERCENT.
PERCENT. EVEN SO,
REACTION TO THE
EVEN SO, REACTION TO THE
CURRENCY MOVE WAS MIXED ON THE
CURRENCY MOVE WAS MIXED ON
THE STREETS OF BEIJING.
STREETS OF BEIJING. >> (
translated): IT SHOULD
BE
>> (translated): IT
SHOULD BE A GOOD THING FOR THE
PEOPLE'S
A GOOD THING FOR THE
PEOPLE'S LIVES.
LIVES. EXPORTS WILL BE EASIER TO
EXPORTS WILL BE EASIER TO
EXPORT, AND IT WILL BE EASIER TO
SELL THINGS. >> (
translated): IN THE
SHORT
>> (translated): IN THE
SHORT TERM, IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE
IT
TERM, IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT
WILL HAVE ANY PARCULATIRLY
OBVIOUS EFFECTS.
OBVIOUS EFFECTS. >>
Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE
EUROPEAN COMMISSION WELCOMED THE
PROSPECT OF A WEAKER CHINESE
PROSPECT OF A WEAKER
CHINESE CURRENCY.
CURRENCY. >> TO THE
EXTENT THAT THE
>> TO THE EXTENT THAT THE
CHANGES ANNOUNCED OVERNIGHT
REFLECT A SHIFT IN OPERATING
REGIME, ALLOWING THE DAILY FIX
TO BETTER REFLECT THE BALANCE OF
DEMAND AND SUPPLY IN THE FOREIGN
EXCHANGE MARKET, WE CONSIDER
THAT TS ISHI A POSITIVE
THAT TS ISHI A
POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT.
DEVELOPMENT. >> Woodruff:
U.S. EXPORTERS HAVE
>> Woodruff: U.S. EXPORTERS HAVE
LONG COMPLAINED THAT CHINA'S
CURRENCY VALUATION IS ALREADY
TOO LOW-- GIVING ITS GOODS AN
TOO LOW-- GIVING ITS GOODS
AN UNFAIR ADVANTAGE.
UNFAIR ADVANTAGE. BUT IN
WASHINGTON, THE STATE
BUT IN WASHINGTON, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WAS RELUCTANT TO
DEPARTMENT WAS RELUCTANT
TO CRITICIZE TODAY'S MOVE:
CRITICIZE TODAY'S MOVE: >>
WE HAVE PRESSED CHINA TO
>> WE HAVE PRESSED CHINA TO
CONTINUE FINANCIAL REFORMS AND
WHILE WE WANT TO SEE ADDITIONAL
ECONOMIC REFORMS WE BELIEVE THAT
ECONOMIC REFORMS WE BELIEVE
THAT ARE NEEDED, WE HAVE SEEN
ARE NEEDED, WE HAVE
SEEN PROGRESS.
PROGRESS. THAT HAS
INCLUDED THE RECENT
THAT HAS INCLUDED THE RECENT
COMMITMENTS BY CHINA THAT WERE
SECURED AT THE MOST RECENT
SECURITY AND ECONOMIC DIALOGUE.
>> Woodruff: CHINA IS THE LATEST
LARGE ECONOMY TO DEVALUE ITS
LARGE ECONOMY TO
DEVALUE ITS CURRENCY.
CURRENCY. IN THE PAST
TWO YEARS, JAPAN AND
IN THE PAST TWO YEARS, JAPAN AND
THE EUROPEAN UNION TOOK SIMILAR
THE EUROPEAN UNION
TOOK SIMILAR STEPS.
STEPS. WE TAKE A
CLOSER LOOK AT THE
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
MOVE WITH GREG IP, CHIEF
ECONOMICS COMMENTATOR FOR "THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL," AND
ORVILLE SCHELL, DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER ON U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS
AT THE ASIA SOCIETY.
AT THE ASIA SOCIETY. GREG
IP, WHY IS CHINA DOING
GREG IP, WHY IS
CHINA DOING THIS?
THIS? >> I THINK
THERE ARE A COUPLE
>> I THINK THERE ARE
A COUPLE REASONS.
REASONS. THE FIRST
ONE IS THAT THE
THE FIRST ONE IS THAT THE
CHINESE ECONOMY IS SLOWING.
CHINESE ECONOMY IS SLOWING. ITS
GROWTH RATE HAS DROPPED TO
ITS GROWTH RATE HAS
DROPPED TO 7% THIS YEAR.
7% THIS YEAR. NOW A
COUNTRY LIKE THE UNITED
NOW A COUNTRY LIKE THE UNITED
STATES WOULD KILL FOR A 7%
GROWTH RATE, BUT HISTORICALLY
THAT'S ACTUALLY RATHER WEAK FOR
CHINA, AND GIVEN THE PROBLEMS WE
CHINA, AND GIVEN THE PROBLEMS
WE KNOW THAT EXIST WITH CHINESE
KNOW THAT EXIST WITH CHINESE
DATA, IT MAY BE THAT THE ECONOMY
IS ACTUALLY GROWING EVEN MORE
IS ACTUALLY GROWING EVEN
MORE SLOWLY THAN THAT.
SLOWLY THAN THAT. THE
RECENT NUMBERS SHOW THAT
THE RECENT NUMBERS SHOW THAT
EXPORTS IN PARTICULAR HAVE
REALLY FALLEN QUITE HARD.
REALLY FALLEN QUITE HARD. SO
A NATURAL RESPONSE FOR THAT
SO A NATURAL RESPONSE FOR THAT
IS FOR A COUNTRY TO LOWER THE
VALUE OF ITS CURRENCY IN HOPES
THAT BOOSTS THE PERFORMANCE OF
THAT BOOSTS THE PERFORMANCE
OF EXPORTS IN OTHER COUNTRY.
EXPORTS IN OTHER COUNTRY.
>> WOODRUFF: THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT PUT OUT A STATEMENT.
THEY MENTIONED THE GROWTH RATE,
BUT THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT
WANTING TO GO ALONG WITH
MARKET-BASED FLUCTUATIONS IN
MARKET-BASED FLUCTUATIONS
IN CURRENCIES, AS WELL.
CURRENCIES, AS WELL.
WHAT'S THAT PART OF IT?
WHAT'S THAT PART OF IT? >>
THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
>> THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
ASPECT OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT,
BECAUSE HISTORICALLY IN MOST
COUNTRIES, LIKE THE UNITED
STATES OR EUROPE, THE EXCHANGE
RATE IS PUSHED UP OR DOWN BY
MARKET FORCES OF SUPPLY AND
MARKET FORCES OF
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
DEMAND. NOT IN CHINA
INCH CHINA THE
NOT IN CHINA INCH CHINA THE
GOVERNMENT SAYS WHAT THEY WANT
THE EXCHANGE RATE AND THE MARKET
THE EXCHANGE RATE AND THE
MARKET IS EXPECTED TO FOLLOW.
IS EXPECTED TO FOLLOW. FOR
YEARS THE UNITED STATES AND
FOR YEARS THE UNITED STATES AND
THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
HAVE SAID, CHINA, TO BE A MODERN
ECONOMY, YOU MUST ALLOW MARKET
ECONOMY, YOU MUST ALLOW
MARKET FORCES TO HOLD SWAY.
FORCES TO HOLD SWAY.
THAT'S WHAT CHINA SAID
THAT'S WHAT CHINA
SAID YESTERDAY.
YESTERDAY. THEY SAID,
FROM NOW ON WE'LL
THEY SAID, FROM NOW ON WE'LL
ALLOW THE MARKET TO TELL US
WHICH DIRECTION THE EXCHANGE
WHICH DIRECTION THE
EXCHANGE RATE SHOULD GO.
RATE SHOULD GO. IT'S
JUST TELLING US, IN THIS
IT'S JUST TELLING US, IN THIS
CIRCUMSTANCE IT SHOULD GO DOWN.
IT WILL TAKE TIME TO SEE IF
CHINA STANDS BEHIND THAT
CHINA STANDS BEHIND
THAT COMMITMENT.
COMMITMENT. AT TIMES
WHEN THE MARKET WANTS
AT TIMES WHEN THE MARKET WANTS
THE EXCHANGE RATE TO GO UP.
>> WOODRUFF: ORVILLE SCHELL,
WHAT MORE WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
WHAT MORE IS GOING ON THAT WOULD
EXPLAIN WHAT CHINA HAS DONE IN.
>> WELL, I THINK WE SEE EMBEDDED
WITHIN THE CHINESE ECONOMIC
SYSTEM THIS EXTRAORDINARY
CONTRADICTION.
CONTRADICTION. I MEAN,
REMEMBER, IT'S HALF
I MEAN, REMEMBER, IT'S HALF
HYBRID CAPITALIST MARKET DRIVEN
AND HALF VALLEY CONTROLLED
COMMAND ECONOMY.
COMMAND ECONOMY. SO WE SEE
THESE STATE DECISIONS
SO WE SEE THESE STATE DECISIONS
THAT HAPPEN QUITE OFTEN.
WE SAW JUST WHEN THE STOCK
MARKET CRASHED WHERE THE
GOVERNMENT INTERVENED TO
ARTIFICIALLY PROP UP THE PRICE
ARTIFICIALLY PROP UP
THE PRICE OF SHARES.
OF SHARES. AND HERE
WE SEE THE GOVERNMENT
AND HERE WE SEE THE GOVERNMENT
REALLY DETERMINING WHAT ITS
CURRENCY SHOULD BE WORTH ON THE
INTERNATIONAL MARKET RATHER THAN
ALLOWING IT TO SPONTANEOUSLY
HAPPEN ACCORDING TO MARKET
HAPPEN ACCORDING
TO MARKET FORCES.
FORCES. THE DILEMMA
HERE IS HUE JINPING
THE DILEMMA HERE IS HUE JINPING
BY HIS OWN ADMISSION, WANTS TO
ALLOW THE MARKET TO DETERMINE
THE ALLOCATION OF RESOURCE, BUT
HERE WE SEE THE STATE INTRUDING
AGAIN IN A WAY THAT FALSELY
MANIPULATES THE VALUE OF THEIR
MANIPULATES THE VALUE
OF THEIR CURRENCY.
CURRENCY. THIS SORT
OF HEIGHTENS THE
THIS SORT OF HEIGHTENS THE
DEGREE TO WHICH WE CAN SEE THE
CHINESE ECONOMY IS ON THE HORNS
CHINESE ECONOMY IS ON THE
HORNS OF A DILEMMA, A REAL
OF A DILEMMA, A
REAL CONTRADICTION.
CONTRADICTION. HALF OF
THIS AND HALF OF THAT.
HALF OF THIS AND HALF OF THAT.
>> WOODRUFF: ORVILLE SCHELL, YOU
WERE TELLING US EARLIER TODAY
THIS ALSO TELLS HOW MUCH STRESS
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT IS UNDER
JUST OVER ITS LEGITIMATE SIMILAR
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT?
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT? >>
WELL, THE CHINESE COMMUNIST
>> WELL, THE CHINESE COMMUNIST
PARTY DOES NOT REALLY HAVE AN
PARTY DOES NOT REALLY
HAVE AN IDEOLOGY ANYMORE.
IDEOLOGY ANYMORE. THE BASIS
OF ITS LEGITIMACY IS
THE BASIS OF ITS LEGITIMACY
IS BY IN LARGE ITS ECONOMIC
BY IN LARGE ITS ECONOMIC
PERFORMANCE ABILITY.
PERFORMANCE ABILITY. LATELY
WE'VE SEEN A NUMBER OF
LATELY WE'VE SEEN A NUMBER
OF BIG HITS ON THAT.
BIG HITS ON THAT.
THAT LEGITIMACY.
THAT LEGITIMACY. MAINLY
WE'VE SEEN SLOWER GROWTH
MAINLY WE'VE SEEN SLOWER GROWTH
RATES, 7%, PROBABLY A LOT LOWER.
WE'VE SEEN A HOUSING BUBBLE.
THEN WE HAD THE STOCK MARKET
THEN WE HAD THE
STOCK MARKET CRASH.
CRASH. NOW WE HAVE
FLAGGING EXPORTS.
NOW WE HAVE FLAGGING EXPORTS. SO
AT THE SAME TIME THEY WANT TO
SO AT THE SAME TIME THEY WANT TO
INCREASE CONSUMPTION AT HOME AND
DIMINISHING THE NEED TO RELY ON
EXPORTS, THEY'RE STIMULATING
EXPORTS BY LOWERING THE COST OF
EXPORTS BY LOWERING THE
COST OF THEIR CURRENCY.
THEIR CURRENCY. SO THIS
AGAIN SORT OF PUTS
SO THIS AGAIN SORT OF PUTS
EVERYTHING AT THE DOORSTEP OF
EVERYTHING AT THE DOORSTEP
OF THE GOVERNMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT. IF THEY
SUCCEED, THEY SUCCEED.
IF THEY SUCCEED, THEY SUCCEED.
BUT IF THESE MEASURES FAIL, THEN
THE GOVERNMENT TAKES ANOTHER HIT
THE GOVERNMENT TAKES ANOTHER
HIT AT ITS LEGITIMACY.
AT ITS LEGITIMACY. >>
WOODRUFF: MEANWHILE, GREG IP,
>> WOODRUFF: MEANWHILE, GREG
IP, THE REST OF THE WORLD IS
THE REST OF THE
WORLD IS WATCHING.
WATCHING. THERE WAS
A LOT OF REACTION
THERE WAS A LOT OF
REACTION TODAY.
TODAY. WHAT IS THE
IMPACT ON THE UNITED
WHAT IS THE IMPACT ON
THE UNITED STATES?
STATES? >> WELL, IT
WILL PARTLY DEPEND
>> WELL, IT WILL PARTLY DEPEND
ON WHETHER OTHER COUNTRIES FEEL
ON WHETHER OTHER COUNTRIES
FEEL THEY HAVE TO LOWER THEIR
THEY HAVE TO LOWER THEIR
CURRENCIES TO COMPETE WITH
CURRENCIES TO
COMPETE WITH CHINA.
CHINA. ASSUME FOR A
MOMENT THEY DON'T.
ASSUME FOR A MOMENT THEY DON'T.
THE UNITED STATES LOST MILLIONS
OF JOBS OVER THE LAST TWO
DECADES AS TRADE WITH CHINA
DECADES AS TRADE
WITH CHINA EXPANDED.
EXPANDED. THAT PROCESS
IS LARGELY OVER.
THAT PROCESS IS LARGELY OVER.
THE DECLINE IN THE YUAN IN THE
LAST DAY IS TOO SMALL TO MAKE A
LAST DAY IS TOO SMALL TO MAKE
A BIG DIFFERENCE TO THE U.S.
BIG DIFFERENCE TO
THE U.S. ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. IT WILL MAKE
IMPORTS A LITTLE
IT WILL MAKE IMPORTS A LITTLE
CHEAPER, SO MAYBE THAT KEEPS
INFLATION LOWER, BUT I THINK THE
IMPACT ON THE U.S. ECONOMY WILL
IMPACT ON THE U.S. ECONOMY
WILL BE VERY, VERY SMALL.
BE VERY, VERY SMALL. >>
WOODRUFF: SO IF YOU'RE A U.S.
>> WOODRUFF: SO IF YOU'RE A U.S.
CONSUMER, WHAT DO YOU LOOK TO
CONSUMER, WHAT DO
YOU LOOK TO HAPPEN?
HAPPEN? >> SOME THINGS
WE KNOW THAT ARE
>> SOME THINGS WE KNOW THAT ARE
MADE IN CHINA LIKE CLOTHING AND
TOYS AND MANY OTHER PRODUCTS
MIGHT BE A LITTLE CHEAPER.
THE REALLY BIG ISSUE WILL BE
THE REALLY BIG ISSUE
WILL BE POLITICAL.
POLITICAL. THIS IS A
BIG PROBLEM FOR BARACK
THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM FOR BARACK
OBAMA AS HE SEEKS TO GET THE
TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP
COMPLETED, BECAUSE AS YOU KNOW,
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
CONGRESS WHO WANTED PRECISELY
THIS SORT OF ACTIVITY
PROHIBITED, CURRENCY
MANIPULATION PROHIBITED, BY THAT
MANIPULATION PROHIBITED,
BY THAT AGREEMENT.
AGREEMENT. THE
ADMINISTRATION RESISTED
THE ADMINISTRATION
RESISTED THAT.
THAT. >> WOODRUFF: AND WE SAW A
>> WOODRUFF: AND WE SAW A
LEADING MEMBER OF CONGRESS
SAYING TODAY THEY MAY LOOK FOR
WAYS TO PENALIZE CHINESE AS A
WAYS TO PENALIZE CHINESE AS
A RESULT OF WHAT THEY DID.
RESULT OF WHAT THEY DID.
ORVILLE SCHELL, SO WHAT'S AT
STAKE HERE FOR THE CHINESE
STAKE HERE FOR THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT?
GOVERNMENT? WHAT HAS
TO HAPPEN FOR THEM TO
WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN FOR THEM
TO COME OUT OF THIS FEELING
COME OUT OF THIS FEELING
STRONGER, OR WHAT ARE THEY
STRONGER, OR WHAT ARE
THEY WORRIED ABOUT?
WORRIED ABOUT? >> WELL,
THEY PRIDE THEMSELVES,
>> WELL, THEY PRIDE THEMSELVES,
HOISTED ON THEIR OWN PETARD.
IN EFFECT THEY'RE BECOMING
RESPONSIBLE FOR MORE AND MORE
ASPECTS OF AN ECONOMY, WHICH
THEY COULD HAVE JUST STOOD ASIDE
AND SAID, WELL, WE'RE GOING TO
LET THE MARKET DETERMINE VALUE.
AND THIS IS THE FUTURE, THIS IS
AND THIS IS THE FUTURE,
THIS IS WHERE WE'RE HEADED.
WHERE WE'RE HEADED. I
THINK THE PROBLEM IS THAT
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS THAT
THERE IS GOING TO BE POLITICAL
THERE IS GOING TO BE
POLITICAL FALLOUT.
FALLOUT. WE NEAR A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
WE NEAR A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION YEAR.
YEAR. MOREOVER,
PRESIDENT JINPING FROM
MOREOVER, PRESIDENT JINPING FROM
CHINA IS COMING IN SEPTEMBER FOR
A SUMMIT WITH OBAMA, AND THERE'S
SO MANY ISSUES NOW DIVIDING THE
COUNTRY, THAT TO HAVE ONE MORE
SORT OF THROWN ON THE FIRE IS
SORT OF THROWN ON THE FIRE
IS GOING TO MAKE IT DOUBLY
GOING TO MAKE IT DOUBLY
DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO, FOR
INSTANCE, COME TO SOME AGREEMENT
ON GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE ISSUES
ON GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
ISSUES AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND THINGS LIKE THAT. COULD
BE THAT CLIMATE CHANGE
COULD BE THAT CLIMATE CHANGE
WILL BE OUR SAVING GRACE, BUT
THIS IS AN AREA WHERE WE CAN
AGREE ON, WHERE WE DO HAVE A
AGREE ON, WHERE WE DO
HAVE A COMMON INTEREST.
COMMON INTEREST. WE'LL
HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE.
WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE.
>> WOODRUFF: IF YOU MENTIONED
ADDITIONAL PRESSURE ON THE
ADDITIONAL PRESSURE ON
THE PRESIDENT, GREG.
PRESIDENT, GREG. WHAT
ARE HIS OPTIONS?
WHAT ARE HIS OPTIONS? I SAW
SPECULATION TODAY THAT
I SAW SPECULATION TODAY THAT
SAID MAYBE THIS MEANS THE
FEDERAL RESERVE MIGHT DELAY
RAISING INTEREST RATES IN THE
RAISING INTEREST
RATES IN THE FALL.
FALL. HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT? >>
THERE IS THAT POSSIBILITY,
>> THERE IS THAT POSSIBILITY,
BUT GIVEN THAT THE CHANGE IN THE
EXCHANGE RATE IS SO TINY AND IT
ONLY AFFECTS RIGHT NOW TRADE
WITH CHINA, I DON'T THINK IT
WILL HAVE A BIG ENOUGH IMPACT ON
OVERALL INFLATION TO AFFECT THE
FEDERAL RESERVE'S DECISION ONE
FEDERAL RESERVE'S DECISION
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
WAY OR THE OTHER. I THINK
THE UNITED STATES, WE'VE
I THINK THE UNITED STATES,
WE'VE SEEN FOR THE OBAMA
SEEN FOR THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, THEY GOT A
LITTLE BIT OF WHAT THEY WANTED
BECAUSE THEY HAVE LONG-ASKED
CHINA TO MAKE THE EXCHANGE RATE
MORE MARKET DETERMINED AND THEY
LOST WHAT THEY WANTED BECAUSE
THE EXCHANGE RATE WENT IN THE
THE EXCHANGE RATE WENT
IN THE WRONG DIRECTION.
WRONG DIRECTION. I THINK
THE BURDEN ON THEM IS
I THINK THE BURDEN ON THEM
IS WE'LL TAKE A WAIT-AND-SEE
WE'LL TAKE A
WAIT-AND-SEE ATTITUDE.
ATTITUDE. THEY HAVE
LONG RESISTED ALL
THEY HAVE LONG RESISTED ALL
THESE CALLS FROM CONGRESS TO
THESE CALLS FROM CONGRESS
TO BRAND CHINA A CURRENCY
BRAND CHINA A
CURRENCY MANIPULATOR.
MANIPULATOR. OUT OF THE
VIEW THAT WOULD JUST
OUT OF THE VIEW THAT WOULD JUST
CAUSE MORE PROBLEMS AND THEY
COULD USE QUIET PRESSURE
COULD USE QUIET
PRESSURE INSTEAD.
INSTEAD. I THINK THEIR
HOPE WILL BE THAT
I THINK THEIR HOPE WILL BE THAT
THE CHINESE ARE SINCERE AND THAT
WHEN THE MARKETS START TO PUSH
THE EXCHANGE RATE UP, THAT WILL
THE EXCHANGE RATE UP, THAT
WILL BE ALLOWED TO HAPPEN.
BE ALLOWED TO HAPPEN. IT'S
GREAT BRITAIN TO BE A
IT'S GREAT BRITAIN TO BE
A WAIT-AND-SEE PROCESS.
WAIT-AND-SEE PROCESS. >>
WOODRUFF: GREG IP, ORVILLE
>> WOODRUFF: GREG IP, ORVILLE
SCHELL, WE THANK YOU BOTH VERY
SCHELL, WE THANK YOU
BOTH VERY MUCH.
MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW BIG CHANGES AT
A GLOBAL TECH-BUSINESS ICON.
GLOBAL TECH-BUSINESS ICON.
GOOGLE ANNOUNCED LATE YESTERDAY
IT IS RESTRUCTURING.
IT IS RESTRUCTURING. THE
CORE INTERNET SEARCH
THE CORE INTERNET SEARCH
BUSINESS WITH WHICH IT IS MOST
CLOSELY IDENTIFIED NOW BECOMES
THE LARGEST SUBSIDIARY OF A
NEWLY CREATED HOLDING COMPANY
NEWLY CREATED HOLDING
COMPANY NAMED "ALPHABET."
NAMED "ALPHABET." OTHER
ENTERPRISES UNDER THE
OTHER ENTERPRISES UNDER THE
GOOGLE UMBRELLA, LIKE THE HOME
AUTOMATION DIVISION NEST, BECOME
AUTOMATION DIVISION NEST,
BECOME PART OF ALPHABET.
PART OF ALPHABET. GOOGLE
CO-FOUNDERS LARRY PAGE
GOOGLE CO-FOUNDERS LARRY PAGE
AND SERGEY BRIN WILL OVERSEE THE
NEW CONGLOMERATE, AND CURRENT
VICE PRESIDENT SUNDAR PICHAI
WILL BECOME GOOGLE'S NEW C.E.O.
BUT WHAT DIFFERENCE WILL THIS
BUT WHAT DIFFERENCE WILL
THIS MAKE FOR CONSUMERS?
MAKE FOR CONSUMERS? BY
WAY OF BACKGROUND AND
BY WAY OF BACKGROUND AND
EXPLANATION, WE TURN TO DAVID
YOFFIE, A PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION AT THE HARVARD
BUSINESS SCHOOL WHO WRITES ABOUT
BUSINESS SCHOOL WHO WRITES
ABOUT THE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY.
THE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY. SO
PROFESSOR YOFFIE, WHY THE
SO PROFESSOR YOFFIE, WHY
THE REORGANIZATION?
REORGANIZATION? >> I
THINK LARRY HAD A COUPLE
>> I THINK LARRY HAD A
COUPLE IDEAS IN MIND.
IDEAS IN MIND. PROBABLY
FIRST AND FOREMOST, HE
PROBABLY FIRST AND FOREMOST, HE
PROBABLY WANTED TO STREAMLINE
THE COMPANY, MAKE IT MUCH MORE
ENTREPRENEURIAL, AND GIVE PEOPLE
IN VERY SMALL BUSINESSES TO BE
THEIR OWN C.E.O., SO THEY COULD
RUN THE COMPANY IN A MORE
ENTREPRENEURIAL WAY.
ENTREPRENEURIAL WAY. THEY
ALSO WANTED TO MAKE THE
THEY ALSO WANTED TO MAKE THE
BUSINESS RESPOND FASTER TO THE
BUSINESS RESPOND FASTER TO
THE MARKET, STREAMLINE THE
MARKET, STREAMLINE THE
BUREAUCRACY AT THE TOP OF THE
BUREAUCRACY AT THE TOP
OF THE ORGANIZATION.
ORGANIZATION. AND I THINK
HE ALSO WAS HOPING
AND I THINK HE ALSO WAS HOPING
IT WOULD BE A GREAT WAY TO
RETAIN SOME OF THE REALLY GOOD
PEOPLE WHO OTHERWISE MIGHT BE
LOOKING FOR OTHER OPPORTUNITIES
IN SILICON VALLEY.
IN SILICON VALLEY. >>
Ifill: WHAT ARE THESE OTHER
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE THESE
OTHER NON-SEARCH BUSINESSES?
NON-SEARCH BUSINESSES? I THINK
YOU CALL THEM "MOON SHOT
I THINK YOU CALL THEM
"MOON SHOT ENTERPRISES."
ENTERPRISES." >> WELL, I
DON'T CALL THEM THAT.
>> WELL, I DON'T CALL THEM THAT.
THAT'S WHAT LARRY CALLS THEM.
THEY ARE THINGS LIKE GOOGLE X,
WHICH IS ROBOTS AND SELF-DRIVING
CARS, KALIKO, WHICH IS LOOKING
AT HOW DO YOU EXPAND LIFE
EXPECTANCY, NAFT, WHICH YOU
ALREADY MENTIONED, AND DROP CAN,
AN INTERNET-BASED VIDEO WHICH
YOU CAN PUT IN A HOME OR A
YOU CAN PUT IN A
HOME OR A BUSINESS.
BUSINESS. THERE ARE
BUSINESSES LIKE GOOGLE
THERE ARE BUSINESSES LIKE GOOGLE
CAPITAL AND GOOGLE VENTURES,
WHICH ARE TRADITIONAL VENTURE
CAPITAL FIRMS OR LATE-STAGE
VENTURE FIRMS LOOKING AT
LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS IN
LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS
IN TECHNOLOGY TRENDS.
TECHNOLOGY TRENDS. >>
Ifill: TELL US ABOUT SUNDAR
>> Ifill: TELL US
ABOUT SUNDAR PICHAI.
PICHAI. WHAT DOES
HE HAVE TO DO ABOUT
WHAT DOES HE HAVE TO DO ABOUT
THIS, AND WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES
IT MAKE THAT HE'S TAKING OVER,
IT MAKE THAT HE'S
TAKING OVER, ANY?
ANY? >> I THINK
SUNDAR IS KNOWN TO BE
>> I THINK SUNDAR IS KNOWN TO
BE A GREAT MANAGER, EXTREMELY
A GREAT MANAGER, EXTREMELY
WELL-LIKED WITHIN THE COMPANY.
HE'S LARGELY GOING TO CONTINUE
DOING WHAT HE'S DOING BEFORE,
EXCEPT HE GOES FROM A SENIOR
VICE PRESIDENT TO A C.E.O., AT
LEAST IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
GOOGLE UMBRELLA, WHICH IS NOW
GOING TO BE CALLED THE ALPHABET
GOING TO BE CALLED THE
ALPHABET UMBRELLA.
UMBRELLA. >> Ifill:
HOW DOES GOOGLE OR
>> Ifill: HOW DOES GOOGLE OR
ALPHABET, BUT IN GENERAL THE
COMPANY, MAKE ITS MONEY.
COMPANY, MAKE ITS MONEY. IT
MAKES A LOT OF MONEY, BUT IS
IT MAKES A LOT OF MONEY, BUT
IS IT REALLY FROM ALL OF THESE
IT REALLY FROM ALL OF THESE
ENTERPRISES, OR IS IT FROM WHAT
WE KNOW AND WHAT WE RECOGNIZE?
>> THERE ARE TWO ANSWERS TO THE
>> THERE ARE TWO ANSWERS
TO THE QUESTION.
QUESTION. WE DON'T KNOW.
WE DON'T KNOW. GOOGLE
DOESN'T TELL US.
GOOGLE DOESN'T TELL US. THEY
KEEP ALL OF THE INFORMATION
THEY KEEP ALL OF THE INFORMATION
ABOUT THEIR SEGMENT REPORTING,
WHAT EACH INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS
WHAT EACH INDIVIDUAL
BUSINESS MAKES A SECRET.
MAKES A SECRET. BUT WE
KNOW THAT THEY MAKE ABOUT
BUT WE KNOW THAT THEY MAKE ABOUT
90% OF THEIR PROFITS FROM
ADVERTISING, WHICH IS THE
BUSINESS WHERE SUNDAR IS GOING
BUSINESS WHERE SUNDAR IS
GOING TO BE THE C.E.O.
TO BE THE C.E.O. >> Ifill: OKAY.
>> Ifill: OKAY. SO WHEN
YOU GET YOUR GOOGLE
SO WHEN YOU GET YOUR GOOGLE
SCREEN UP FOR YOUR SEARCH WITH
YOUR GOOGLE COOD L OR WHATEVER
ELSE YOU FIND THERE, WHAT
DIFFERENCE WILL IT MAKE FOR THE
DIFFERENCE WILL IT MAKE FOR
THE AVERAGE CONSUMER THAT THE
AVERAGE CONSUMER THAT THE
COMPANY IS STRUCTURING ITSELF
COMPANY IS STRUCTURING
ITSELF DIFFERENTLY NOW?
DIFFERENTLY NOW? >> SO
THE AVERAGE CONSUME HER
>> SO THE AVERAGE CONSUME
HER NOT SEE ANY DIFFERENCE
NOT SEE ANY DIFFERENCE
WHATSOEVER.
WHATSOEVER. THE GOOGLE
WEB SITE WILL BE THE
THE GOOGLE WEB SITE WILL
BE THE GOOGLE WEB SITE.
GOOGLE WEB SITE. THE
CHROME BROWSER WILL BE THE
THE CHROME BROWSER WILL BE THE
CHROME BROWSER, AND ANDROID ON
YOUR SMARTPHONE WILL BE EXACTLY
THE SAME, RUB BY THE SAME PEOPLE
IN THE SAME ORGANIZATION.
IN THE SAME ORGANIZATION. SO
FOR A CONSUMER, IT SHOULDN'T
SO FOR A CONSUMER, IT
SHOULDN'T BE MEANINGFUL.
BE MEANINGFUL. THE REAL
QUESTION IS WILL BIT
THE REAL QUESTION IS WILL BIT
DIFFERENT FOR INVESTORS.
DIFFERENT FOR INVESTORS. WILL
THEY GET MORE INFORMATION?
WILL THEY GET MORE INFORMATION?
WILL IT BE DIFFERENT FOR THESE
OTHER BUSINESSES, WHERE THEY
WILL POTENTIALLY BE UNLOCKED AND
WILL POTENTIALLY BE UNLOCKED
AND ABLE TO MOVE MORE QUICKLY.
ABLE TO MOVE MORE QUICKLY. >>
ALSO WILL IT BE DIFFERENT FOR
>> ALSO WILL IT BE DIFFERENT
FOR THIS PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF
THIS PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF
GOOGLE, WHICH HAS A REPUTATION
OF BEING KIND OF DIFFERENT, A
LITTLE QUIRKY, AND NOW IT SEEMS
LIKE IT'S HEADED MORE IN THE
DIRECTION OF BERKSHIRE-HATHAWAY
DIRECTION OF
BERKSHIRE-HATHAWAY OR A GE.
OR A GE. >> AND THAT'S
THE OPEN QUESTION.
>> AND THAT'S THE OPEN QUESTION.
IS ALPHABET REALLY TRYING TO
BECOME A CONGLOMERATE LIKE A
BERKSHIRE-HATHAWAY, OR IS IT
BERKSHIRE-HATHAWAY, OR IS
IT JUST A REORGANIZATION?
JUST A REORGANIZATION? THAT
PART, THE VERDICT IS STILL
THAT PART, THE VERDICT
IS STILL OUT.
OUT. IT'S VERY HARD TO BE A
IT'S VERY HARD TO BE A
CONGLOMERATE IN THE TECH WORLD.
CONGLOMERATE IN THE TECH
WORLD. IT'S A LOT EASIER AT
IT'S A LOT EASIER AT
BERKSHIRE-HATHAWAY WHEN YOU'RE
DEALING WITH COMPANIES LIKE
FRUIT OF THE LOOM AND NET JETS
FRUIT OF THE LOOM AND
NET JETS OR INSURANCE.
OR INSURANCE. BUT IN
A COMPANY SUCH AS
BUT IN A COMPANY SUCH AS
ALPHABET OR GOOGLE, YOU'RE
DEALING WITH VERY HIGH-TECH,
VERY CAPITAL INTENSIVE AND IN
SOME CASES CERTAINLY DEINTENSIVE
BUSINESSES WHERE INNOVATION IS
THE KEY AND NOT SIMPLY RUNNING
THE BUSINESS FOR CASH FLOW.
>> FINALLY, DOES THIS PROTECT
GOOD UNTIL ANY WAY FROM THE
CHALLENGES TO ITS PRIMACY,
ESPECIALLY IN EUROPE, REGULATORY
CHALLENGES, BY REORGANIZING
ITSELF, DOES IT BECOME LESS
ITSELF, DOES IT BECOME
LESS VULNERABLE?
VULNERABLE? >> I DON'T THINK SO.
>> I DON'T THINK SO. GOOGLE'S
CORE BUSINESS, WHAT'S
GOOGLE'S CORE BUSINESS, WHAT'S
GOING TO STILL BE CALLED GOOGLE
INC., IS THE PRIMARY BUSINESS
WHERE THEY'RE BEING CHALLENGED
BY ANTI-TRUST AUTHORITIES IN
BY ANTI-TRUST
AUTHORITIES IN EUROPE.
EUROPE. THAT WILL BE
EQUALLY VULNERABLE
THAT WILL BE EQUALLY VULNERABLE
UNDER THIS STRUCTURE AS WELL AS
UNDER THIS STRUCTURE AS
WELL AS THE OLD STRUCTURE.
THE OLD STRUCTURE. SO GOOGLE
STILL HAS TO DEAL WITH
SO GOOGLE STILL HAS TO DEAL WITH
POTENTIAL ANTI-TRUST ISSUES,
WHETHER THEY'RE TRYING TO PUT
OTHER COMPETITORS IN THEIR
BUSINESS OUT OF BUSINESS, AND
THIS STRUCTURE REALLY DOESN'T
THIS STRUCTURE REALLY
DOESN'T HELP THEM AT ALL.
HELP THEM AT ALL. >>
Ifill: PROFESSOR DAVID
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR DAVID
YOFFIE OF THE HARVARD BUSINESS
SCHOOL, THANKS FOR HELPING US
SCHOOL, THANKS FOR
HELPING US OUT.
OUT. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A RESURGENCE OF SEGREGATED
SCHOOLS IN THE U.S.
ARTISTIC PORTALS BRIDGE
CONNECTIONS ACROSS CULTURES AND
CONNECTIONS ACROSS
CULTURES AND BORDERS.
BORDERS. PLUS, STORIES
OF NOTE THAT FLEW
PLUS, STORIES OF NOTE THAT
FLEW UNDER THE RADAR.
UNDER THE RADAR. BUT
FIRST, THE HIGH-PROFILE
BUT FIRST, THE HIGH-PROFILE
KILLING OF CECIL THE LION BY AN
AMERICAN DENTIST IN ZIMBABWE
RECENTLY HAS PUT THE SPOTLIGHT
BACK ON BIG GAME HUNTING AND
BACK ON BIG GAME HUNTING
AND POACHING IN AFRICA.
POACHING IN AFRICA. TODAY,
ZIMBABWE LIFTED THE BAN
TODAY, ZIMBABWE LIFTED THE BAN
ON LION, LEOPARD AND ELEPHANT
HUNTING WHICH IT IMPOSED AFTER
THE KILLING AND WORLDWIDE
ATTENTION WHICH FOLLOWED.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK AT
EFFORTS TO STOP ILLEGAL POACHING
IN NEIGHBORING SOUTH AFRICA,
WITH A ONE-OF-A-KIND GROUP
FIGHTING TO PROTECT ENDANGERED
FIGHTING TO PROTECT
ENDANGERED SPECIES.
SPECIES. NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL HAS OUR STORY.
>> Reporter: THEY TAKE THEIR
NAME FROM THE MOST FEARED SNAKE
NAME FROM THE MOST
FEARED SNAKE IN AFRICA.
IN AFRICA. THE BLACK
MAMBAS ARE A SPECIALLY
THE BLACK MAMBAS ARE A
SPECIALLY TRAINED, ALL-WOMEN,
TRAINED, ALL-WOMEN,
ANTI-POACHING UNIT, PROTECTING
RHINORS AND OTHER ENDANGERED
RHINORS AND OTHER
ENDANGERED SPECIES.
SPECIES. >> I WANTED
TO PROTECT THE
>> I WANTED TO
PROTECT THE RHINORS.
RHINORS. >> Reporter: UH-HUH.
>> Reporter: UH-HUH. >>
BECAUSE I HEARD A LOT ABOUT
>> BECAUSE I HEARD A LOT
ABOUT PEOPLE KILLING RHINOS.
PEOPLE KILLING RHINOS. SO I
JUST HAD AN INTEREST THAT I
SO I JUST HAD AN INTEREST THAT
I MUST COME AND WORK HERE AND
MUST COME AND WORK HERE
AND PROTECT THOSE RHINOS.
PROTECT THOSE RHINOS. >>
Reporter: THEY'RE CRITICAL
>> Reporter: THEY'RE CRITICAL
EYES AND EARS ON THE GROUND,
PATROLLING THE PERIMETER FENCE,
LOOKING FOR ANY SIGNS OF POACHER
LOOKING FOR ANY SIGNS
OF POACHER INCURSIONS.
INCURSIONS. THEY
WALK 20 MILES, OFTEN
THEY WALK 20 MILES, OFTEN
LONGER, DURING THE DAY, AND THEY
WORK AT NIGHT, A LOUD, VERY
VISIBLE DISPLAY THAT THEY ARE
STITCH WATCHING AFTER DARK.
THEY USE A VEHICLE AT GHTNI
BECAUSE IT IS FAR TOO DANGEROUS
TO COME OUT ON FOOT.
TO COME OUT ON FOOT. BUT
THERERE A STILL THREATS.
BUT THERERE A STILL THREATS.
THE WILD ANIMALS, THAT'S AN
ELEPHANT THEY HAVE TO BACK OFF.
LIONS AND LEOPARDS HUNT AT
LIONS AND LEOPARDS
HUNT AT NIGHT.
NIGHT. POACHERS ARE
USUALLY HEAVILY
POACHERS ARE USUALLY
HEAVILY ARMED.
ARMED. ALL OF THE
WOMEN ADMIT IT WASN'T
ALL OF THE WOMEN ADMIT IT
WASN'T EASY IN THE BEGINNING.
EASY IN THE BEGINNING. ONE
OF THE BLACK MAMBA VETERANS
ONE OF THE BLACK MAMBA VETERANS
RUNS THE OPERATION CENTER, BUT
SHE SPENT THREE YEARS ON THE
SHE SPENT THREE YEARS ON
THE BEAT IN THE BUSH.
BEAT IN THE BUSH. >> KNOWING
THAT THERE IS DANGER,
>> KNOWING THAT THERE IS DANGER,
YOU JUST THINK, I DON'T KNOW IF
YOU JUST THINK, I DON'T KNOW
IF I AM GOING TO FACE A LION.
I AM GOING TO FACE A LION. I
DON'T KNOW WHEN I'M GOING TO
I DON'T KNOW WHEN I'M GOING TO
FACE A RHINO, SO, YEAH, FIRST
FACE A RHINO, SO, YEAH,
FIRST TIME, I WAS AFRAID.
TIME, I WAS AFRAID. >>
Reporter: ALL OF THEM GOT
>> Reporter: ALL OF THEM
GOT OVER THOSE FEARS.
OVER THOSE FEARS. >> AT
FIRST I WAS SCARED, BUT
>> AT FIRST I WAS SCARED, BUT
EACH AND EVERY TIME WHEN YOU GO
OUT, I GET USED TO IT, AND I'M
OUT, I GET USED TO IT,
AND I'M LOVING IT.
LOVING IT. >> Reporter:
THE BLACK MAMBAS
>> Reporter: THE BLACK MAMBAS
LEARN IN BALLOLEY GAME RESERVE,
PART OF THE GREATER KRUGER
PART OF THE GREATER
KRUGER NATIONAL PARK.
NATIONAL PARK. KRUGER IS
ENORMOUS, THE SIZE OF
KRUGER IS ENORMOUS, THE SIZE
OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
THE RHINO POPULATION IS
CONSTANTLY THREATENED BY
POACHERS, BUT HERE THERE HAS
BEEN A SHARP DROP IN ATTACKS
SINCE THE BLACK MAMBAS WERE
SINCE THE BLACK
MAMBAS WERE DEPLOYED.
DEPLOYED. >> THEY ARE
AFRICAN WOMEN IN AN
>> THEY ARE AFRICAN WOMEN IN AN
AFRICAN CONTEXT DOING THIS JOB
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
THE HISTORY OF AFRICA.
HISTORY OF AFRICA. >> COPY THAT.
>> COPY THAT. I COPY THAT.
I COPY THAT. GOOD LUCK.
GOOD LUCK. >> Reporter:
CRAIG SPENCER IS
>> Reporter: CRAIG SPENCER IS
THE WARDEN HERE AND THE ONE WHO
THE WARDEN HERE AND THE ONE
WHO CREATED THE BLACK MAMBAS.
CREATED THE BLACK MAMBAS.
HE RATES THEIR OVERALL
PERFORMANCE AS EXCELLENT AND
SAYINGS THEY OFTEN DO BETTER
THAN MEN ON THE FOOT PATROLS.
>> THE WOMEN'S ABILITY TO PICK
UP THOSE THINGS, YOU KNOW, TO
SEE THOSE SUBTLE DIFFERENCES IS
SEE THOSE SUBTLE DIFFERENCES
IS MUCH HIGHER THAN THE MEN.
MUCH HIGHER THAN THE MEN. SO
THEY'RE MUCH MORE OBSERVANT.
SO THEY'RE MUCH MORE OBSERVANT.
MEN ARE TOO INTERESTED IN RIDING
QUAD BIKES AND CARRYING BIG GUNS
AND JUMPING OUTS OF HELICOPTERS.
THE WOMEN AREN'T INTERESTED IN
THE WOMEN AREN'T INTERESTED
IN ANY OF THAT, AT ALL.
ANY OF THAT, AT ALL. >>
Reporter: THEY DON'T CARRY
>> Reporter: THEY
DON'T CARRY WEAPONS.
WEAPONS. THE
POACHERS USUALLY DO.
THE POACHERS USUALLY DO. THEY'RE
OFTEN CAUGHT ON CAMERAS
THEY'RE OFTEN CAUGHT ON CAMERAS
MOWLTED THROUGHOUT THE PARK.
MOWLTED THROUGHOUT THE PARK. THE
PICTURES ARE TRANSMITTED TO
THE PICTURES ARE TRANSMITTED TO
THREE DIFFERENT SMARTPHONES.
THREE DIFFERENT SMARTPHONES. >>
IF YOU ZOOM IN, YOU CAN SEE G
>> IF YOU ZOOM IN, YOU
CAN SEE G A WEAPON.
A WEAPON. THERE'S A
THIRD GUY BACKING HIM
THERE'S A THIRD GUY
BACKING HIM UP BEHIND.
UP BEHIND. HE'S ALSO
CARRYING SOME SORT OF
HE'S ALSO CARRYING
SOME SORT OF A WEAPON.
A WEAPON. IF WE PUT IT
ON THE COMPUTER, WE
IF WE PUT IT ON THE COMPUTER,
WE CAN ADVANCE THE PICTURE.
CAN ADVANCE THE PICTURE. YOU
CAN SEE, THESE GUYS ARE UP
YOU CAN SEE, THESE GUYS
ARE UP TO NO GOOD.
TO NO GOOD. >>
Reporter: IF THE BLACK
>> Reporter: IF THE BLACK
MAMBAS SPOT A POACHER OR NEED
SUPPORT, THEY CALL FOR BACK-UP.
ARMED RANGERS ARE ON CONSTANT
STAND-BY, READY TO REACT WHEN
STAND-BY, READY TO REACT
WHEN THE CALL COMES.
THE CALL COMES. IN THE
THREE YEARS THEY HAVE
IN THE THREE YEARS THEY HAVE
BEEN OPERATIONAL, THEY HAVE
EARNED THE RESPECT IN A
PROFESSION LONG DOMINATED BY
PROFESSION LONG
DOMINATED BY MEN.
MEN. THEY ARE
DETERMINED TO PROVE
THEY ARE DETERMINED
TO PROVE THEMSELVES.
THEMSELVES. >> THEY'RE
WONDERING, WHAT KIND
>> THEY'RE WONDERING, WHAT KIND
OF WOMAN ARE YOU, DOING MAN'S
OF WOMAN ARE YOU,
DOING MAN'S JOB.
JOB. I TOLD THEM,
THAT'S IN THE MAN'S
I TOLD THEM, THAT'S IN
THE MAN'S JOB. DO, I CAN
JOB. DO, I CAN DO IT.
DO IT. >> Reporter:
BUT WORK IN THE
>> Reporter: BUT WORK IN THE
PARK IS ONLY HALF OF THE BLACK
PARK IS ONLY HALF OF THE
BLACK MAMBA EQUATION.
MAMBA EQUATION. THERE IS
A FURIOUS BATTLE GOING
THERE IS A FURIOUS BATTLE
GOING ON IN THE MANY VILLAGES
ON IN THE MANY VILLAGES
SURROUNDING THE PARK, A BATTLE
SURROUNDING THE PARK, A
BATTLE FOR HEARTS AND MINDS.
FOR HEARTS AND MINDS. THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN THESE
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN THESE
AREAS IS 80%, SOMETIMES EVEN
AREAS IS 80%, SOMETIMES
EVEN HIGHER.
HIGHER. THE POACHERS
KNOW THAT, AND THEY
THE POACHERS KNOW THAT, AND
THEY TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT.
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT. BUT
WHEN THE WOMEN RETURN FOR
BUT WHEN THE WOMEN RETURN FOR
THEIR REGULAR BREAKS, THEY BRING
THEIR REGULAR BREAKS, THEY
BRING AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE.
AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE.
THIS WOMAN IS HOME FOR A
THIS WOMAN IS HOME FOR
A SEVEN-DAY BREAK.
SEVEN-DAY BREAK. SHE WILL
SPEND MUCH OF THAT TIME
SHE WILL SPEND MUCH OF THAT
TIME TALKINTO TG EENAGERS.
TALKINTO TG EENAGERS. >>
I'M WARNING THEM THAT IT'S
>> I'M WARNING THEM THAT IT'S
TOO RISKY FOR THEM IF THEY WANT
TO POACH, BECAUSE RANGERS ARE
WAITING FOR THEM SO THEY CAN
WAITING FOR THEM SO THEY
CAN KILL THE POACHERS.
KILL THE POACHERS. >>
Reporter: THE WOMEN ALSO
>> Reporter: THE WOMEN ALSO
TARGET SCHOOLS IN AREAS WHERE
POACHERS ARE KNOWN TO BE MOST
POACHERS ARE KNOWN
TO BE MOST ACTIVE.
ACTIVE. >> WE'RE
LETTING INFORMATION GO
>> WE'RE LETTING INFORMATION GO
OUT TO THE COMMUNITY, BUT IN THE
RESERVE, WE'VE GOT BLACK MAMBAS
THAT WILL PROTECT OUR RHINOS.
SO IF A PARENT IS A POACHER AND
THEY COME INTO OUR RESERVE, THE
KIDS CAN ACT AS AN EARLY WARNING
SYSTEM THAT THE PARENTS
SHOULDN'T COME INTO THE RESERVE,
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WANT. >>
Reporter: 11-YEAR-OLD JENNY
>> Reporter: 11-YEAR-OLD JENNY
HAS HER OWN IDEAS ON HOW TO
HAS HER OWN IDEAS ON HOW
TO FIGHT THE POACHERS.
FIGHT THE POACHERS. >> WE
MUST MAKE LOTS AND LOTS
>> WE MUST MAKE LOTS AND LOTS
AND LOTS OF POACHERS, EVERYWHERE
AROUND YOU'RE GOING, SAVE THE
RHINOS AND THE POACHERS.
RHINOS AND THE POACHERS. >>
Reporter: THE MESSAGE IS
>> Reporter: THE MESSAGE IS
GETTING THROUGH, MAKING IT MORE
DIFFICULT FOR THE POACHERS TO
SUCCESSFULLY RECRUIT PEOPLE IN
SUCCESSFULLY RECRUIT
PEOPLE IN THESE VILLAGES.
THESE VILLAGES. THERE
ARE 26 BLACK MAMBAS AT
THERE ARE 26 BLACK
MAMBAS AT BALLOLEY.
BALLOLEY. THE WARDEN
WANTS THE TRAIN MORE,
THE WARDEN WANTS THE TRAIN MORE,
BUT FUNDING IS ALREADY TIGHT.
AMY CLARK MANAGES THE OFFICE.
>> IT'S VERY FRUSTRATING.
BECAUSE POTENTIALLY THERE IS SO
MUCH MORE WE COULD DO, BUT WE
NEED THE FUNDING TO ENABLE US TO
NEED THE FUNDING TO
ENABLE US TO DO THAT.
DO THAT. IT DOES GET
VERY FRUSTRATING.
IT DOES GET VERY FRUSTRATING.
AND QUITE STRESSFUL, AS WELL, AT
AND QUITE STRESSFUL, AS WELL,
AT TIMES, WHEN YOU SORT OF ARE
TIMES, WHEN YOU SORT OF ARE
RUNNING AROUND SORT OF ALMOST
FEELS LIKE YOU'RE BEGGING
SOMETIMES, BUT UNFORTUNATELY
THAT'S WHAT WE NEED TO DO TO BE
THAT'S WHAT WE NEED TO DO TO
BE ABLE TO GET THE FUNDS TO
ABLE TO GET THE
FUNDS TO CONTINUE.
CONTINUE. >> Reporter:
THE MAMBAS'SALARY H
>> Reporter: THE MAMBAS'SALARY
H AFRICAN NATIONAL PARKS
AFRICAN NATIONAL PARKS
AUTHORITY, BUT IT'S NOT MUCH,
AUTHORITY, BUT IT'S NOT
MUCH, ABOUT $250 A MONTH.
ABOUT $250 A MONTH. THE
EXTREME LOW END OF SOUTH
THE EXTREME LOW END OF SOUTH
AFRICA'S NATIONAL PAY SCALE.
YET SIMILAR TO WHAT OTHER PARK
YET SIMILAR TO WHAT
OTHER PARK WORKERS GET.
WORKERS GET. BUT THEY
SAY THEY'RE DRIVEN TO
BUT THEY SAY THEY'RE DRIVEN TO
DO THIS BECAUSE THEY SAY THEY
WANT TO PRESERVE SOMETHING FOR
WANT TO PRESERVE SOMETHING
FOR THEIR CHILDREN.
THEIR CHILDREN. >> WE
WANT OUR CHILDREN TO BE
>> WE WANT OUR CHILDREN TO BE
ABLE TO SEE RHINOS, NOT FROM A
ABLE TO SEE RHINOS, NOT FROM
A TELEVISION OR A MAGAZINE.
TELEVISION OR A MAGAZINE. WE
WANT THEM TO SEE THEM LIVE IN
WE WANT THEM TO SEE THEM
LIVE IN THE RESERVE.
THE RESERVE. >> IT IS
IMPORTANT FOR US TO
>> IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO
SAVE THE RHINOS SO THAT THE NEXT
GENERATION WILL BE ABLE TO SEE
GENERATION WILL BE ABLE TO
SEE THAT THEY ARE RHINOS.
THAT THEY ARE RHINOS. NOT
JUST BY HISTORY THAT THERE
NOT JUST BY HISTORY
THAT THERE WAS RHINOS.
WAS RHINOS. OTHERWISE
THEY WILL BE LIKE
OTHERWISE THEY WILL
BE LIKE DINOSAURS.
DINOSAURS. >> FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
>> FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL IN SOUTH
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL
IN SOUTH AFRICA.
>> Ifill: FOR THE FIRST TIME
THIS SCHOOL YEAR, NON-WHITE
CHILDREN MADE UP MORE THAN HALF
OF THE COUNTRY'S PUBLIC SCHOOL
OF THE COUNTRY'S PUBLIC
SCHOOL STUDENTS.
STUDENTS. BUT THE
COUNTRY'S SCHOOLS HAVE
BUT THE COUNTRY'S SCHOOLS HAVE
GROWN ONLY MORE SEGREGATED SINCE
GROWN ONLY MORE
SEGREGATED SINCE 1988.
1988. THE MOST RECENT
DATA SHOWS THE
THE MOST RECENT DATA SHOWS THE
AVERAGE WHITE STUDENT GOES TO A
SCHOOL THAT IS MORE THAN 70%
SCHOOL THAT IS MORE
THAN 70% WHITE.
WHITE. AND LESS THAN
A QUARTER OF BLACK
AND LESS THAN A QUARTER OF BLACK
STUDENTS GO TO MAJORITY WHITE
STUDENTS GO TO MAJORITY
WHITE SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. JEFFREY BROWN
TAKES A LOOK AT
JEFFREY BROWN TAKES A LOOK
AT WHATEVER HAPPENED TO
WHATEVER HAPPENED
TO INTEGRATION.
INTEGRATION. >> Brown:
ONE METROPOLITAN AREA
>> Brown: ONE METROPOLITAN
AREA WHERE SCHOOLS ARE LARGELY
WHERE SCHOOLS ARE LARGELY
SEGREGATED IS ST. LOUIS.
SEGREGATED IS ST. LOUIS. AND
ONE YEAR AFTER THE SHOOTING
AND ONE YEAR AFTER THE SHOOTING
DEATH OF MICHAEL BROWN IN
FERGUSON, IT'S AN ISSUE THAT
CONTINUES TO RESONATE THERE AND
CONTINUES TO RESONATE
THERE AND BEYOND.
BEYOND. "NEW YORK TIMES
MAGAZINE" WRITER
"NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE" WRITER
NIKOLE HANNAH-JONES HAS REPORTED
ON THE SITUATION IN FERGUSON AND
ON THE SITUATION IN FERGUSON
AND ELSEWHERE IN THE COUNTRY.
ELSEWHERE IN THE COUNTRY.
ALSO JOINING US IS SHERYLL
CASHIN, A LAW PROFESSOR AT
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY WHO WRITES
ON DESEGRATION EFFORTS. HER
LATEST BOOK IS TITLED, "PLACE,
LATEST BOOK IS TITLED,
"PLACE, NOT RACE."
NOT RACE." WELCOME
TO BOTH OF YOU.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
NIKOLE HANNAH-JONES, LET ME
NIKOLE HANNAH-JONES,
LET ME START WITH YOU.
START WITH YOU. GIVE US A
QUICK OVERVIEW OF WHAT
GIVE US A QUICK OVERVIEW OF WHAT
YOU SAW IN FERGUSON AND ITS
YOU SAW IN FERGUSON
AND ITS SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. WHAT STRUCK
YOU MOST FORCEFULLY
WHAT STRUCK YOU MOST
FORCEFULLY THERE?
THERE? >> WELL, THE
THING THAT STRIKES
>> WELL, THE THING THAT STRIKES
YOU MOST IS THIS IS THE MOST
SEGREGATED, IMPOVERISHED
DISTRICTS IN THE ENTIRE STATE.
THERE ARE 520 DISTRICTS IN
MISSOURI, AND THIS DISTRICT
MISSOURI, AND THIS
DISTRICT RANKED DEAD LAST.
RANKED DEAD LAST. IT
WAS STRIPPED OF ITS
IT WAS STRIPPED OF ITS
ACCREDITATION, AND IN THE
CLASSROOMS, SOMETIMES THERE'S
VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF TEACHING
VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF
TEACHING OCCURRING.
OCCURRING. >> THERE WAS
EVEN A SHORT-LIVED
>> THERE WAS EVEN A SHORT-LIVED
EFFORT I GATHER THERE TO BRING
SOME OF THE STUDENTS FROM THAT
SCHOOL DISTRICT TO ANOTHER
SUBURB, WHICH WAS MOSTLY WHITE.
SUBURB, WHICH WAS
MOSTLY WHITE. >> YES.
>> YES. BECAUSE OF THE
MISSOURI TRANSFER
BECAUSE OF THE MISSOURI TRANSFER
LAW, I CALL IT ACCIDENTAL
INTEGRATION, BECAUSE THE LAW WAS
NEVER INTENDED AS AN INTEGRATION
STATUTE, BUT BECAUSE NORMANDY IS
ALMOST ENTIRELY BLACK AND LOST
ITS ACCREDITATION, UNDER THE LAW
IT WAS GIVEN THE RIGHT TO SEND
ITS STUDENTS TO AN ACCREDITED
DISTRICT NEW YORK THIS CASE THE
ACCREDITED DISTRICTS ARE MOSTLY
ACCREDITED DISTRICTS ARE
MOSTLY HEAVILY WHITE.
HEAVILY WHITE. MICHAEL
BROWN SHERYLL CASHIN, IT
MICHAEL BROWN SHERYLL CASHIN, IT
IS MORE, NOT LESS COMMON THAT
AMERICAN SCHOOLS ARE SEGREGATED.
AMERICAN SCHOOLS ARE
SEGREGATED. >> RIGHT.
>> RIGHT. IN THE
'70s AND '80s, MANY
IN THE '70s AND '80s, MANY
SCHOOL DISTRICTS WERE UNDER
COURT ORDER TO DESEGREGATE.
COURT ORDER TO DESEGREGATE. IN
THE '90s, THE SUPREME COURT
IN THE '90s, THE SUPREME COURT
SIGNALLED IT WAS TIME FOR COURTS
TO STOP POLICING DESEGREGATION
AND TWO-THIRDS OF THE SCHOOL
DISTRICTS THAT HAD BEEN UNDER
DESEGREGATION ORDERS HAVE COME
DESEGREGATION ORDERS HAVE
COME OUT FROM UNDER THEM.
OUT FROM UNDER THEM. WE'VE
HAD A RAPID, MASSIVE,
WE'VE HAD A RAPID, MASSIVE,
RECESSION -- RECESSION
IMMIGRATION SINCE 1998.
IMMIGRATION SINCE 1998. >>
BROWN: HAVE WE LARGELY GIVEN
>> BROWN: HAVE WE LARGELY GIVEN
UP ON THE IDEA OF REINTEGRATION?
>> I HOPE THAT'S IN THE TRUE.
THERE ARE ABOUT 80 SCHOOL
DISTRICTS IN THIS COUNTRY THAT
DISTRICTS IN THIS COUNTRY
THAT VOLUNTARILY HAVE SCHOOL
VOLUNTARILY HAVE SCHOOL
INTEGRATION PLANS.
INTEGRATION PLANS. THEY
TEND TO USE ECONOMIC
THEY TEND TO USE ECONOMIC
INTEGRATION AS THEIR MODEL
INTEGRATION AS THEIR
MODEL RATHER THAN RACE.
RATHER THAN RACE. >>
>> THE SUPREME COURT
MAKES IT HARD.
THE SUPREME COURT MAKES IT HARD.
BUT THOSE 80 SCHOOL DISTRICTS
ARE OUT THERE TRYING WITHOUT A
LOT OF ENCOURAGEMENT FRANKLY
FROM THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OR
FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OR OTHERS.
OTHERS. SO I HOPE,
BECAUSE THERE ARE
SO I HOPE, BECAUSE THERE
ARE SUCCESSFUL PLACES LIKE
SUCCESSFUL PLACES LIKE
LOUISVILLE, LIKE MONTGOMERY
COUNTY, MARYLAND, INCREASINGLY
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING TO THE
HARTFORD EXAMPLE WHERE 45 MAGNET
SCHOOLS THAT ARE WELL RESOURCED
AND INTEGRATED HAVE BEEN BUILT
BECAUSE OF A LAWSUIT, AND
THERE'S A MULTIRACIAL COALITION
OF PARENTS THAT SUPPORTS IT.
SO THERE ARE POSITIVE EXAMPLES
SO THERE ARE POSITIVE
EXAMPLES OUT THERE.
OUT THERE. I HOPE WE
HAVE NOT GIVEN UP ON
I HOPE WE HAVE NOT
GIVEN UP ON IT.
IT. >> BROWN: NIKOLE
HANNAH-JONES,
>> BROWN: NIKOLE HANNAH-JONES,
WHAT DID YOUR REPORT TELL YOU
ABOUT INTEGRATION AND WHAT ARE
ABOUT INTEGRATION AND WHAT
ARE THE KEY FACTORS IN IT?
THE KEY FACTORS IN IT? >>
WELL, IT TELLS YOU THAT
>> WELL, IT TELLS YOU THAT
INTEGRATION EFFORTS IN THIS
COUNTRY PEAKED IN 1988.
COUNTRY PEAKED IN 1988. THAT'S
ALSO WHEN THE CLOSURE OF
THAT'S ALSO WHEN THE CLOSURE OF
THE ACHIEVEMENT GAP PEAKED. SO
SINCE THEN WE'VE SEEN LARGELY
SO SINCE THEN WE'VE SEEN
LARGELY AN UNRAVELING.
AN UNRAVELING. SHERYLL
TALKS ABOUT THERE ARE 80
SHERYLL TALKS ABOUT THERE ARE
80 SCHOOL DISTRICTS THAT ARE
SCHOOL DISTRICTS THAT ARE
ACTIVELY ATTEMPTING INTEGRATION,
BUT THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF
SCHOOL DISTRICTS IN THIS
COUNTRY, AND MOST OF THEM ARE
COUNTRY, AND MOST
OF THEM ARE NOT.
NOT. AS NATION
WE'VE DECIDED THAT
AS NATION WE'VE DECIDED THAT
DESEGREGATION EFFORTS ARE NOT
POLITICALLY WORTH OUR WHILE.
AND SO YOU HAVE SEEN A PRETTY
RAPID RECESSION IMMIGRATION,
PARTICULARLY IN THE SOUTH, AND
IN MUCH OF THE NORTHEAST, THERE
WAS NEVER MUCH DESEGREGATION IN
WAS NEVER MUCH DESEGREGATION
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
THE FIRST PLACE. >> WHAT
ARE THE BIGGEST FACTORS
>> WHAT ARE THE BIGGEST FACTORS
IN ALL OF THIS, AS TO WHO IS
GETTING A BETTER EDUCATION.
GETTING A BETTER
EDUCATION. IS IT MONEY?
IS IT MONEY? IS IT TEACHERS?
IS IT TEACHERS? WHAT
IS IT THAT MAKES THE
WHAT IS IT THAT MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE?
DIFFERENCE? WHAT DO WE KNOW?
WHAT DO WE KNOW? >> WELL,
THERE ARE TWO THINGS.
>> WELL, THERE ARE TWO THINGS.
NOW WE'RE SEEING IN BLACK AND
NOW WE'RE SEEING IN BLACK
AND LATINO SCHOOLS, A HIGH
LATINO SCHOOLS, A HIGH
CONCENTRATION OF POVERTY, WHICH
PROVIDES A VERY DIFFICULT
LEARNING ENVIRONMENT AND
TEACHING ENVIRONMENT.
TEACHING ENVIRONMENT. BUT
ALSO DATA COLLECTED BY THE
BUT ALSO DATA COLLECTED BY THE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
SHOWS THAT TO THIS DAY WE HAVE
FAILED THE MAKE SEPARATE EQUAL.
SO SCHOOLS THAT ARE HEAVILY
BLOCK AND LATINO GET THE LEAST
BLOCK AND LATINO GET THE
LEAST QUALIFIED TEACHERS.
QUALIFIED TEACHERS. THEY
GET THE LEAST RIGOROUS
THEY GET THE LEAST RIGOROUS
CURRICULUM, THEIR FACILITIES ARE
CURRICULUM, THEIR
FACILITIES ARE WORSE.
WORSE. SO SEPARATION
IS CONTINUING TO
SO SEPARATION IS CONTINUING
TO HARM THESE STUDENTS.
HARM THESE STUDENTS. >>
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
>> WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
>> WELL, NIKOLE IS RIGHT.
>> WELL, NIKOLE IS RIGHT. I
DON'T WANT TO MISREPRESENT THE
I DON'T WANT TO
MISREPRESENT THE FACTS.
FACTS. 80 DISTRICTS
PURSUE INTEGRATION.
80 DISTRICTS PURSUE
INTEGRATION. 14,000 DON'T.
14,000 DON'T. AND
NIKOLE IS RIGHT.
AND NIKOLE IS RIGHT. THE
VAST MAJORITY OF BLACK AND
THE VAST MAJORITY OF BLACK AND
LATINO STUDENTS AT PUBLIC
SCHOOLS TODAY ARE IN SEPARATE,
SCHOOLS TODAY ARE IN
SEPARATE, UNEQUAL SCHOOLS.
UNEQUAL SCHOOLS. AND THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DOES THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT ITS
COMPETITORS, WHO ARE BEATING US
COMPETITORS, WHO ARE BEATING
US IN THE INTERNATIONAL TEST
IN THE INTERNATIONAL
TEST SCORES, DO.
SCORES, DO. OUR
COMPETITORS PUT THE MOST
OUR COMPETITORS PUT THE MOST
EXPERIENCED TEACHERS IN
DISADVANTAGED AREAS.
WE DO THE OPPOSITE.
WE DO THE OPPOSITE. WE
TEND TO PUT, YOU KNOW, THE
WE TEND TO PUT, YOU KNOW, THE
WEAKEST, OFTEN UNCERTIFIED
TEACHERS IN SCHOOLS WITH THE
MOST NEED, AND ONLY 1% OF
HIGH-POVERTY SCHOOLS SUCCEED.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE DEPARTMENT OF
UNFORTUNATELY, THE DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION HAS FOCUSED ITS
EDUCATION HAS FOCUSED ITS
EFFORTS MAINLY ON TRYING TO TURN
AROUND HIGH-POVERTY SCHOOLS WITH
AROUND HIGH-POVERTY SCHOOLS
WITH NOT MUCH SUCCESS.
NOT MUCH SUCCESS. AND IT
HASN'T FOCUSED MUCH ON
AND IT HASN'T FOCUSED MUCH ON
DEACONS TRAITING POVERTY, WHICH
IS PROVEN TO BE SUCCESSFUL WHEN
IS PROVEN TO BE SUCCESSFUL
WHEN IT IS ACHIEVED.
IT IS ACHIEVED. >> BROWN:
WE'LL HAVE TO LEAVE
>> BROWN: WE'LL
HAVE TO LEAVE IT.
IT. THERE SHERYLL CASHIN, NIKOLE
THERE SHERYLL CASHIN, NIKOLE
HANNAH-JONES, THANK YOU BOTH
HANNAH-JONES, THANK
YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
VERY MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AN ART PROJECT
ATTEMPTING TO BUILD INDIVIDUAL
CONNECTIONS ACROSS THE GLOBE.
IT'S CALLED "PORTALS," AND IS
THE BRAINCHILD OF ARTIST AND
FORMER TELEVISION NEWS PRODUCER
AMAR BAKSHI, WHO TOLD US THAT IN
HIS FORMER PROFESSION THE MOST
MEANINGFUL CONVERSATIONS OFTEN
CAME ONCE THE CAMERAS WERE
CAME ONCE THE CAMERAS
WERE TURNED OFF.
TURNED OFF. WE SPOKE
TO BAKSHI DURING AN
WE SPOKE TO BAKSHI DURING AN
INSTALLATION EARLIER THIS SUMMER
INSTALLATION EARLIER THIS
SUMMER THAT CONNECTED PEOPLE IN
THAT CONNECTED PEOPLE IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. WITH THOSE IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. WITH THOSE
IN HERAT, AFGHANISTAN.
HERAT, AFGHANISTAN.
HERE'S OUR LOOK.
HERE'S OUR LOOK. >> MY
EVERYDAY LIFE IS NOT THAT
>> MY EVERYDAY LIFE IS NOT THAT
CRAZY, OR I DON'T LIVE IN A WAR
CRAZY, OR I DON'T
LIVE IN A WAR ZONE.
ZONE. BUT OCCASIONALLY
YOU KNOW THERE
BUT OCCASIONALLY YOU KNOW THERE
ARE THAT UNFORTUNATE EVENTS
WHERE THERE IS A BOMB OR
WHERE THERE IS A BOMB
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
BUT LIFE IS GOOD!
BUT LIFE IS GOOD! >> GOOD!
>> GOOD! >> IT'S A
BIT INTIMIDATING TO
>> IT'S A BIT INTIMIDATING TO
WALK INTO A ROOM AND TALK TO A
WALK INTO A ROOM AND TALK
TO A TOTAL STRANGER.
TOTAL STRANGER. THE NEWS
ALWAYS LATCHES ON TO
THE NEWS ALWAYS LATCHES ON
TO WHATEVER IS LIKE THE MOST
WHATEVER IS LIKE THE MOST
ATTENTION GRABBING, WORST, THE
MOST HORRIBLE PIECE TO SHOW
MOST HORRIBLE PIECE
TO SHOW EVERYBODY.
EVERYBODY. >> I MET
SOMEONE THAT I DIDN'T
>> I MET SOMEONE THAT I DIDN'T
KNOW BEFORE AND YOU KNOW IT'S
ALMOST LIKE LEARNING SOMETHING
ALMOST LIKE LEARNING
SOMETHING NEW.
NEW. >> MY NAME IS
AMAR BAKSHI, I'M
>> MY NAME IS AMAR BAKSHI, I'M
THE CREATOR OF SHARED STUDIOS.
WE'RE LOOKING AT A PORTAL.
WE'RE LOOKING AT A PORTAL. A
LARGE, GOLD SHIPPING CONTAINER
A LARGE, GOLD SHIPPING CONTAINER
SO WHEN YOU ENTER IT YOU TALK TO
SO WHEN YOU ENTER IT YOU TALK
TO SOMEONE IN A SIMILAR SPACE
SOMEONE IN A SIMILAR SPACE
ABROAD, ANOTHER GOLD CONTAINER,
LIVE, FULL BODY WITH TRANSLATION
AS IF IN THE SAME ROOM, ONE ON
AS IF IN THE SAME ROOM, ONE
ON ONE FOR 20 MINUTES.
ONE FOR 20 MINUTES.
>> HOW DO YOU FEEL?
>> HOW DO YOU FEEL? IS
THERE WEATHER THERE HOT OR
IS THERE WEATHER
THERE HOT OR NOT?
NOT? IT WAS WONDERFUL
EXPERIENCE THAT
IT WAS WONDERFUL EXPERIENCE THAT
WE SHARED OUR IDEAS ABOUT OUR
WE SHARED OUR IDEAS
ABOUT OUR CULTURES.
CULTURES. >> REALLY?
I CAN SPEAK A LITTLE
>> REALLY? I CAN SPEAK
A LITTLE GERMAN TOO.
GERMAN TOO. >> HE
ASKED ME WHAT I WAS
>> HE ASKED ME WHAT I WAS
STUDYING, WHERE I WAS FROM, IF I
WOULD EVER GO TO AFGHANISTAN.
I THINK HE WAS TRYING TO
CONVINCE ME TO COME VISIT SO.
>> IT IS MEANT TO ENABLE
ENCOUNTERS ACROSS ALL SORTS OF
ENCOUNTERS ACROSS ALL SORTS
OF DISTANCES BOTH GEOGRAPHIC,
DISTANCES BOTH GEOGRAPHIC,
IDEOLOGICAL, GENDER-BASED,
POLITICAL YOU NAME IT.
POLITICAL YOU NAME IT. >>
MY PARENTS REALLY WANTED ME
>> MY PARENTS REALLY WANTED ME
TO BE A DOCTOR BUT THAT WAS JUST
TO BE A DOCTOR BUT THAT
WAS JUST NOT MY PATH.
NOT MY PATH. >> I W A
LASITTLE BIT WORRIED
>> I W A LASITTLE BIT WORRIED
ABOUT WHETHER THERE WOULD BE
ANYTHING TO RELATE TO, WHETHER
THE CONVERSATION WOULD JUST BE
FILLED WITH AWKWARD PAUSES.
>> THAT'S LIKE EVERYBODY'S
>> THAT'S LIKE
EVERYBODY'S PARENTS!
PARENTS! >> THIS IS
A RARE SPACE WHERE
>> THIS IS A RARE SPACE WHERE
BOTH PEOPLE ARE IN IT IN A
SIMILAR CONTEXTUAL ARRANGEMENT
WHICH DOESN'T IMMEDIATELY TELL
THEM TO DO OR TRY TO ACQUIRE TO
TRY TO ACCOMPLISH A PARTICULAR
>> YEAH, WHAT DO YOU EAT
>> YEAH, WHAT DO
YOU EAT TYPICALLY?
TYPICALLY? >> MEAT,
UH RED MEAT, UH,
>> MEAT, UH RED MEAT, UH,
CHICKEN OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
THING AND THAT I THINK IS
POWERFUL IN ITSELF FOR PEOPLE.
>> I HAD ACTUALLY PLANNED TO
TALK ABOUT SOME MAYBE MORE IN-
TALK ABOUT SOME MAYBE MORE
IN- DEPTH, TOUGH QUESTIONS.
DEPTH, TOUGH QUESTIONS. >>
DO YOU LIVE IN WASHINGTON,
>> DO YOU LIVE IN
WASHINGTON, D.C.?
D.C.? >> BUT WHEN
YOU'RE FACED IN JUST
>> BUT WHEN YOU'RE FACED IN JUST
THAT SHORT MOMENT OF SOMEONE YOU
HAVEN'T MET IT'S DIFFICULT TO
DIVE RIGHT INTO THE MEATY KIND
DIVE RIGHT INTO THE MEATY
KIND OF CONTROVERSIAL TOUGH
OF CONTROVERSIAL
TOUGH QUESTIONS.
QUESTIONS. >> PEOPLE
CAN GO IN THERE AND
>> PEOPLE CAN GO IN THERE AND
CHIT CHAT ABOUT THE WEATHER AND
OFTEN THEY DO BECAUSE ITS HOT
OFTEN THEY DO BECAUSE
ITS HOT HERE AND THERE.
HERE AND THERE. BUT THEY
CAN ALSO GO IN AND TALK
BUT THEY CAN ALSO GO IN AND TALK
ABOUT AND THEY DO-- MARRIAGE,
ONLINE DATING, YOU KNOW
FREEDOMS, WAR, LOSS.
FREEDOMS, WAR, LOSS. >>
LIFE HAS REALLY CHANGED IN
>> LIFE HAS REALLY CHANGED IN
AFGHANISTAN AND EVERYTHING HAS
HAD A REALLY BIG IMPACT ON OUR
HAD A REALLY BIG
IMPACT ON OUR LIVES.
LIVES. LEARNING ABOUT
A CULTURE THROUGH
LEARNING ABOUT A CULTURE THROUGH
TV OR MEDIA IS REALLY HARD BUT
GETTING TO KNOW PEOPLE AND
GETTING TO TALK TO THEM IN
GETTING TO TALK TO THEM
IN PERSON, IT'S MUCH MORE
PERSON, IT'S MUCH
MORE EFFECTIVE.
EFFECTIVE. >> FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE HERE YOU
>> FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE HERE YOU
CAN FEEL CONFLICTED ABOUT YOU
KNOW TO WHAT EXTENT DID WE PLAY
KNOW TO WHAT EXTENT DID WE
PLAY A ROLE IN CAUSING THAT.
A ROLE IN CAUSING THAT.
>> IT WAS A REALLY GOOD
EXPERIENCE AND REALLY
INTERESTING TO HEAR KIND OF
INTERESTING TO HEAR KIND
OF ABOUT HIS LIFE AND HIS
ABOUT HIS LIFE AND HIS
PERCEPTIONS OF THE U.S. AND KIND
OF TO GET A FEEL FOR A REAL
PERSON LIVING IN AFGHANISTAN.
>> WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SPORT?
>> I WASN'T DISAPPOINTED THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT SOME OF THE LIGHTER
STUFF BECAUSE A LOT OF TIMES
THAT'S WHAT YOU ACTUALLY TALK TO
THAT'S WHAT YOU ACTUALLY TALK
TO PEOPLE ABOUT IN DAILY LIFE.
PEOPLE ABOUT IN DAILY LIFE.
I THINK THE VALUE IN THIS
EXPERIENCE IS JUST HAVING THAT
MOMENT WITH SOMEONE PARTWAY
ACROSS THE WORLD THAT YOU
ABSOLUTELY WOULD NOT MEET
ABSOLUTELY WOULD NOT
MEET OTHERWISE.
OTHERWISE. AND I THINK
IT TELLS YOU THAT
AND I THINK IT TELLS YOU THAT
EVERY HUMAN ON THE PLANET HAS
SOMETHING TO CONNECT AROUND.
SOMETHING TO CONNECT AROUND. AND
SO IT WAS A PLEASURE TO GET
AND SO IT WAS A PLEASURE TO
GET TO TALK TO SOMEONE THAT I
TO TALK TO SOMEONE THAT I
OTHERWISE WOULD NOT MEET AND UM,
MAKE THAT SMALL CONNECTION, EVEN
FOR A MOMENT, TO START OFF MY
FOR A MOMENT, TO
START OFF MY DAY.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
LOOK AT INTERESTING PEOPLE AND
IDEAS ONLINE YOU MAY HAVE
IDEAS ONLINE YOU
MAY HAVE MISSED.
MISSED. BUT FIRST,
IT'S TIME TO SUPPORT
BUT FIRST, IT'S TIME TO
SUPPORT YOUR PBS STATION.
YOUR PBS STATION. THIS
INTERMISSION GIVES YOUR
THIS INTERMISSION GIVES YOUR
LOCAL STATION THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LOCAL STATION THE OPPORTUNITY
TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT MAKING A
TALK TO YOU ABOUT MAKING A
CONTRIBUTION, WHICH HELPS KEEP
PROG >> Ifill: TIME
NOW FOR OUR LOOK
>> Ifill: TIME NOW FOR OUR LOOK
AT INTERESTING PEOPLE AND IDEAS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE MISSED ON THE
WEB, STORIES THAT ARE "NOT
WEB, STORIES THAT
ARE "NOT TRENDING."
TRENDING." I SAT DOWN
YESTERDAY WITH CARLOS
I SAT DOWN YESTERDAY WITH CARLOS
WATSON, THE HEAD OF ozy.com.
CARLOS, I WANT THE START BY
TALKING TO YOU ABOUT SOME OF THE
STORIES THAT WE DON'T HEAR THAT
STORIES THAT WE DON'T
HEAR THAT MUCH ABOUT.
MUCH ABOUT. ONE OF THEM
WE DO READ A LOT AND
ONE OF THEM WE DO READ A LOT AND
SEE A LOT ABOUT DRONES, DRONES
GETTING IN THE WAY OF PLANES
LANDING AT J.F.K. OR DRONES
DROPPING OFF PACKAGES AT YOUR
DROPPING OFF PACKAGES
AT YOUR HOUSE.
HOUSE. BUT IT TURNS
OUT THE PEOPLE ARE
BUT IT TURNS OUT THE PEOPLE ARE
NOW LOOKING AT DRONES, THESE
MOTORIZED, AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES,
AIRBORNE, AND THEY HAVE
DIFFERENT USES FOR THEM.
DIFFERENT USES FOR THEM. >>
TWO REALLY INTERESTING ONES
>> TWO REALLY INTERESTING
ONES RECENTLY, GWEN.
RECENTLY, GWEN. ONE IS
IN SEARCH OF RESCUE.
ONE IS IN SEARCH OF RESCUE. AS
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE USE PLANES,
AS YOU KNOW, PEOPLE USE PLANES,
BOATS, CARS, TRYING VERY HARD
THE FIND PEOPLE WHO ARE LOST,
WHERE PEOPLE ARE HIKING AT SEA,
WHERE PEOPLE ARE HIKING
AT SEA, ET CETERA.
ET CETERA. NOW THEY'RE
USING DRONES.
NOW THEY'RE USING DRONES.
THEY'RE NOT ONLY USING DRONES TO
FIND PEOPLE, BUT THEY CAN ALSO
BRING FOOD, THEY CAN BRING
MEDICINE, THEY CAN CARRY UP TO
MEDICINE, THEY CAN CARRY
UP TO SEVEN POUNDS.
SEVEN POUNDS. SO INCREDIBLY
INTERESTING USE,
SO INCREDIBLY INTERESTING USE,
ONLY GOT PERMITTED BY THE F.A.A.
ONLY GOT PERMITTED BY THE
F.A.A. ABOUT SIX MONTHS AGO.
ABOUT SIX MONTHS AGO. BUT
IT COULD RADICALLY CHANGE
BUT IT COULD RADICALLY
CHANGE SEARCH AND RESCUE.
SEARCH AND RESCUE. >>
Ifill: THEY ALSO HAVE THE
>> Ifill: THEY ALSO HAVE THE
KIND OF DRONE YOU CAN PUT A
CAMERA IN A BALL AND THROW INTO
A TIGHT SPACE TO SEE THINGS YOU
OTHERWISE WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
OTHERWISE WOULDN'T
BE ABLE TO SEE IN
SEE IN >> VERY MUCH
SOME NEEDLESS TO
>> VERY MUCH SOME NEEDLESS TO
SAY, OUR MILITARY HAS BEEN USING
DRONES FOR A LONG TIME, USING IT
DRONES FOR A LONG TIME,
USING IT IN THAT REGARD.
IN THAT REGARD. THE
OTHER PLACE YOU'RE NOW
THE OTHER PLACE YOU'RE NOW
SEEING IT OVER IN BHUTAN, A VERY
SMALL COUNTRY ON THE EDGE OF
INDIA, THEY'RE NOW USING IT MORE
TO DELIVER HEALTH CARE SERVICES.
SO THEY'RE SAYING THAT THEY'VE
ONLY GOT 30 HOSPITALS FOR ALMOST
A MILLION PEOPLE, RELATIVELY FEW
A MILLION PEOPLE,
RELATIVELY FEW DOCTORS.
DOCTORS. OUR ABILITY
TO GET THE PEOPLE IN
OUR ABILITY TO GET THE PEOPLE IN
NEED OF AID AND TO LOOK AROUND
AND UNDERSTAND AND EVEN TO TAKE
SOMETIMES SOME OF THE DIAGNOSES
FROM FOLKS, IT'S FACILITATED BY
FROM FOLKS, IT'S
FACILITATED BY THIS.
THIS. THEY SAY IN
THE FUTURE, GWEN,
THEY SAY IN THE FUTURE, GWEN,
EVEN IN CASES OF EBOLA OUTBREAK,
THOSE SORTS OF THINGS, WHERE
IT'S DIFFICULT OR SOMETIMES
UNSAFE, DRONES MIGHT FACILITATE.
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED INDIA.
ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING
PIECES ON YOUR SITE WAS ABOUT
THE MOST POWERFUL POLITICIAN
MOST OF US HAVE NEVER HEARD OF.
MOST OF US HAVE NEVER HEARD
OF. HIS NAME IS VIJAY JOLLY.
HIS NAME IS VIJAY JOLLY.
>> WHAT A GREAT NAME.
>> WHAT A GREAT
NAME. 55 YEARS OLD.
55 YEARS OLD. NOT ELECTED
TO ANYTHING RIGHT
NOT ELECTED TO ANYTHING RIGHT
NOW, BUT HE'S A KEY AIDE TO THE
GROUND-BREAKING PRIME MINISTER
THERE IN MINUTE WHO, AS YOU
KNOW, THROUGHOUT THE LONG-TIME
CONGRESS PARTY WAS QUITE
CONTROVERSIAL OVERSEAS IN PART
BECAUSE OF SOME OF HIS ROLE A
DOZEN YEARS EARLIER WHEN THERE
WAS MUSLIM-HINDU VIOLENCES.
MANY MUSLIMS WERE KID.
MANY MUSLIMS WERE KID. HE
WASN'T EVEN ALLOWED, THE
HE WASN'T EVEN ALLOWED, THE
PRIME MINISTER, TO VISIT THE
PRIME MINISTER,
TO VISIT THE U.S.
U.S. JOLLY IS THIS SPOKESPERSON
JOLLY IS THIS SPOKESPERSON
OUTSIDE OF INDIA, WILL LET'S
OUTSIDE OF INDIA, WILL
LET'S CHANGE THE IMAGE.
CHANGE THE IMAGE. PART
OF THE WAY WE CHANGE THE
PART OF THE WAY WE CHANGE THE
IMAGE IS REGULARLY MEET WITH
SO-CALLED NON-RESIDENT INDIAN,
INDIANS WHO GREW UP IN INDIANS
AND NOW LIVE IN CANADA AND THE
AND NOW LIVE IN
CANADA AND THE U.K.
U.K. >> Ifill: WHO
CAN STILL VOTE.
>> Ifill: WHO CAN STILL VOTE.
>> WHO CAN STILL VOTE.
>> WHO CAN STILL VOTE. SOME
11 MILLION OF THEM HAD THE
SOME 11 MILLION OF THEM HAD THE
POSSIBILITY TO FLY BACK HOME
LAST TIME AROUND AND VOTE IN
THAT BIG, HISTORIC ELECTION.
THE SON AND GRANDSON OF ONE
PRIME MINISTER RAN AGAINST A
PRIME MINISTER RAN AGAINST
A FORMER TEA SELLER.
FORMER TEA SELLER. >>
Ifill: HOW DOES HE DO IS
>> Ifill: HOW DOES
HE DO IS THAT?
THAT? DOES HE DO
IT WITH SCWIEP OR
DOES HE DO IT WITH SCWIEP
OR TECHNOLOGY AS MUCH AS
TECHNOLOGY AS MUCH
AS EVERYTHING?
EVERYTHING? >> HE'S
DOING IT WITH THAT, BUT
>> HE'S DOING IT WITH THAT, BUT
HE'S DOING WITH IT THE WAY MAJOR
PREACHERS AND MANGE MUSICIANS
HAVE DONE IT, WITH MEETING AT
HAVE DONE IT, WITH MEETING
AT MADISON SQUARE GARDEN AND
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN AND
LITERALLY HOLDING HUGE EVENTS.
SO, YES, THE SMALL EVENTS, BUT
ALSO THE LARGE EVENTS ARE QUITE
ALSO THE LARGE EVENTS
ARE QUITE INTERESTING.
INTERESTING. THIS IS
THE GUY WHO IS ON THE
THIS IS THE GUY WHO IS ON THE
FAR RIGHT, A HINDU NATIONALIST
HE'S SOMETIMES CALLED AND
REGARDED, BUT HE'S SEEKING TO
PAINT, IF YOU WILL, A DIFFERENT
IMAGE, A MORE INCLUSIVE IMAGE OF
IMAGE, A MORE INCLUSIVE IMAGE
OF THE SO-CALLED B JP, NOW THE
THE SO-CALLED B JP,
NOW THE RULING PARTY.
RULING PARTY. >> Ifill:
ANOTHER THING GOING
>> Ifill: ANOTHER THING GOING
UNDER THE RADAR IS A POTENTIAL
CURE FOR STUTTERING, WHICH
THERE'S... IT'S REALLY RUINED A
THERE'S... IT'S REALLY RUINED
A LOT OF YOUNG CHILDHOOD.
LOT OF YOUNG CHILDHOOD. IN
THIS CASE IDENTIFYING A
IN THIS CASE IDENTIFYING
A PREDISPORTION?
PREDISPORTION? >> MANY
ADULTS AND CHILDREN
>> MANY ADULTS AND CHILDREN
SUFFER WITH STULTERING.
SUFFER WITH STULTERING. THERE
HAVE BEEN VARIOUS KINDS OF
THERE HAVE BEEN VARIOUS KINDS
OF BEHAVIORAL THERAPY.
BEHAVIORAL THERAPY. SOME
OF THEM SHOWN IN THE MOVIE
SOME OF THEM SHOWN IN THE
MOVIE ABOUT KING GEORGE VI.
ABOUT KING GEORGE VI. >>
Ifill: "THE KING'S SPEECH."
>> Ifill: "THE KING'S SPEECH."
>> VERY FAMOUS PEOPLE, EVERYONE
FROM WILT CHAMBERLAIN, THE
BASKETBALL PLAYER TO, SOMEONE
LIKE SAMUEL L. JACKSON, THE
LIKE SAMUEL L.
JACKSON, THE ACTOR.
ACTOR. FOR YEARS
PEOPLE ENCOURAGED
FOR YEARS PEOPLE ENCOURAGED
CHILDREN AND ADULTS TO BE LESS
TENSE WHEN THEY'RE SPEAKING AS A
WAY TO EASE THE STUTTERING ONLY
IN SOME CASES TO PRONOUNCE
CERTAIN CONSONANTS MORE SOFTLY,
NOW THE QUESTION IS: IS THERE
INTERESTING NEW GENETIC TESTING
THAT ONE DAY MAY SAY TO YOU,
THIS YOUNG BABY'S LIKELY TO
STRUGGLE WITH THIS, AND SO
PERHAPS ENCOURAGING YOU TO
INTERVENE SOORER WITH THE BELIEF
IF YOU INTERVENE SOONER IT MAY
ALLOW YOU TO PREVENT THAT CHILD
ALLOW YOU TO PREVENT THAT
CHILD FROM BEGINNING A PATTE
FROM BEGINNING A
PATTE STUTTERING.
STUTTERING. >> Ifill:
THAT INTERVENTION
>> Ifill: THAT INTERVENTION
COULD BE JUST A PILL?
COULD BE JUST A PILL? >>
THAT TODAY IS SCIENCE
>> THAT TODAY IS
SCIENCE FICTION.
FICTION. THAT'S FURTHER AWAY.
THAT'S FURTHER AWAY. BUT THE
FACT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BUT THE FACT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
USING D.N.A. AND GENETIC TESTING
IN ORDER TO IDENTIFY THESE KIND
OF MARKERS REPRESENTS A LOT OF
OF MARKERS REPRESENTS A LOT
OF EXCITEMENT IN THE AREA.
EXCITEMENT IN THE AREA.
NOW, WHEN YOU TALK TO THE
SCIENTIST, THEY SAY, I WANT TO
CAUTION YOU, I WANT THE CAUTION
YOU, I WANT THE CAUTION YOU
BECAUSE WE'RE STILL A LITTLE BIT
AWAY, BUT IT'S AN AREA THAT'S
AWAY, BUT IT'S AN AREA
THAT'S OPENING UP.
OPENING UP. GIVEN ALL
OF THE HEART HEARTACHT
GIVEN ALL OF THE HEART HEARTACHT
STUTTERING AND SPEECH DISORDERS
CAN CAUSE, YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT
A BIG DEAL THIS WOULD BE TO
MILLIONS OF ADULTS AND CHILDREN.
>> Ifill: NOT TRENDING YET BUT
>> Ifill: NOT TRENDING
YET BUT IT MAY BE SOON.
IT MAY BE SOON. CARLOS
WATSON, THANK YOU VERY
CARLOS WATSON, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
MUCH. >> ALWAYS GOOD TO SEE YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, A DIFFERENT
LOOK AT THE AMERICAN SPIRIT,
LOOK AT THE AMERICAN SPIRIT, A
JOURNEY THROUGH U.S. HISTORY
A JOURNEY THROUGH U.S. HISTORY
TO UNDERSTAND WHY ALCOHOL AND
AMERICA GO HAND IN HAND, AND
HAVE SINCE THE NATION'S EARLIEST
HAVE SINCE THE NATION'S
EARLIEST DAYS.
DAYS. ALL THAT AND
MORE IS ON OUR WEB
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEB SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
SITE, pbs.org/newshour. >>
Ifill: TUNE IN LATER TONIGHT,
>> Ifill: TUNE IN LATER TONIGHT,
ON CHARLIE ROSE, ACTOR LESLIE
ODOM ON THE HIT MUSICAL
ODOM ON THE HIT
MUSICAL "HAMILTON."
"HAMILTON." >> Woodruff:
AND THAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT. ON
WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
A PROGRAM IN BOSTON THAT
PROGRAM IN BOSTON THAT
TRANSFORMS THE LIVES
TRANSFORMS THE LIVES OF
LOW-INCOME KIDS USING
OF LOW-INCOME KIDS USING
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. >>
Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
TOMORROW EVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.